
DebConf "Newbies"/Non-Regulars Funding Initiative
=================================================


**May 15th, 2011**


This year the Debian Project again invites newbies and non-regular
attendees to join the annual Debian Conference (DebConf). As a special incentive
an extra travel fund has been set up, which is only available to new or
non-regular DebConf attendees. Every Debian Developer or Maintainer who has never
been to a Debian Conference or who last attended in 2007 (Scotland) or before is
invited to participate.


People who want to apply for this special funding or who want to recommend
other deserving members of the Debian project can do so by sending a mail to
the DebConf Newbies Team <newbies@debconf.org> before June 18. Funding
will be given out on a first-come-first-served basis.


In your email please include an estimate of your travel costs, where you are
traveling from and the amount you are unable to fund yourself. We also need to
know what dates you plan to arrive and leave on, as well as whether you have
already registered for DebConf. (If you haven't registered yet, please do
so now via [the DebConf
registration system](https://debconf11.debconf.org/register.xhtml).)
About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social, and policy talks, DebConf provides
an opportunity for developers, contributors, and other interested people
to meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Canada, Finland, Mexico,
Scotland, and Argentina.


DebConf11 will take place in Banja Luka, in Republika Srpska, Bosnia
and Herzegovina from Sunday 24 to Saturday 30 July, 2011.
DebConf will be preceded by DebCamp, from Sunday 17 to Saturday 23
July, 2011. DebCamp is a smaller, less formal event intended for group
work on Debian projects.


More information about DebConf11 can be found on the [conference website](https://debconf11.debconf.org/).


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.





