
Debian welcomes student applications for Google Summer of Code 2011
===================================================================


**March 30th, 2011**


Debian is now inviting students to apply for *Google
Summer of Code 2011* with Debian. This will be the sixth
consecutive participation of Debian and as each year, the
developer community looks forward to introduce students to the world
of Debian and Free Software.


*Summer of Code* projects from the past years have provided
valuable contributions to Debian. They have been
opportunities for students to propose innovative new ideas to
Debian as well as for developers to collaborate with students
on code critical to Debian. Many successful students have
gone on to become Debian project members.


The range of project themes proposed to students is one of the
widest among all participating organizations, encompassing subjects
such as porting the Debian system to new architectures,
improving tools for package management, extending Debian's
infrastructure and better integration with other well-known open
source projects.


Further information about applying for *Google Summer of
Code* at Debian can be found at: <https://wiki.debian.org/gsoc>


About *Google Summer of Code*
-----------------------------


[*Google Summer of Code*](http://www.google-melange.com)
is a global program where university students are given a stipend to
write code for open source projects over a three month period. Through
*Google Summer of Code*, accepted students are paired with a
mentor from the participating projects, gaining exposure to real-world
software development and the opportunity for employment in areas
related to their academic pursuits. Best of all, more source code is
created and released for the use and benefit of all.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



