
Debian Women Offers Building Packages from Source Tutorial
==========================================================


**May 2nd, 2011**


Are you enthusiastic about Debian and thinking about contributing? We
want to guide you in the basics.


We are convinced that there are a lot of people out there that want to
get involved with Free Software but don't know where to start. For
Debian, the most common task you'll do as a contributor is rebuilding
a package.


The Debian Women project, in collaboration with the OpenHatch project,
will be holding an IRC event to help people who want to compile their
first Debian package from source, and apply their first patch.


The event
---------


On Saturday May 7th, two tutorial sessions will be held on
#debian-women on irc.debian.org to help people rebuild a package for
the first time.


The earlier session, suggested for those who live in Oceania, Asia,
Africa and Europe, will be held at 11:00 UTC. The later session,
suggested for those who live in the Americas, will be held at 22:00
UTC.


You can find out the exact time in your timezone by using this
[timezone
converter](http://www.timezoneconverter.com/cgi-bin/tzc.tzc).


There will be people available to answer questions and generally help
out with any difficulties that might arise all along the day.


Intended audience
-----------------


This event is aimed to anyone who wants to rebuild a Debian package
for the first time, it's a simple task that doesn't require any
previous knowledge, only a working installation of Debian (or Ubuntu,
or other Debian-derived system). We want to particularly encourage
women who want to get involved, to take their first steps in
contributing to Free Software, but everybody is welcome.


More about IRC
--------------


IRC is a real-time chat system you can use to get in touch with
members of the Debian community. You can connect to IRC through lots
of different clients, including xchat, pidgin and konversation.


About Debian Women
------------------


The [Debian Women Project](https://www.debian.org/women/) seeks to
balance and diversify the Debian Project by actively engaging with interested
women and encouraging them to become more involved with Debian.


About OpenHatch
---------------


OpenHatch is an open source community aiming to help newcomers find
their way into free software projects. It works towards this goal
through on-line and outreach events. This event is a reappropriation
of the OpenHatch Build it events.



