
Nicaragua to host Debian Developer Conference 2012
==================================================


**March 25th, 2011**


On March 22, 2011, the DebConf committee decided that DebConf12, the Debian
developer conference of 2012, will take place in Managua, Nicaragua. This
will be the first time DebConf takes place in Central America. The exact
dates have yet to be determined. More details may be found on the
[organizers' wiki](http://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf12).


In a two-and-a-half hour meeting on Tuesday evening, the Managua bid
narrowly won over the bid from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Teams had been
preparing their bids since mid-2010, seeking venues and local sponsors in
their respective cities and countries. 


In thirteen years of DebConf history, this will be the first time that the
Debian developer conference takes place in the Central American region, it
is also the first time that the DebConf Team received a proposal from a
Central American country. Both teams did great work in their bids.


The DebConf organizers congratulate the future organizers of DebConf12,
and thank both teams for their efforts. 


The venue decision for DebConf13 will be made in twelve months. Proposals
should be submitted by 31 December 2011 to be eligible for
consideration.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a full
schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place annually
since 2000 in locations as varied as Spain, Argentina, and the United
States.


This year, DebConf11 starts on Sunday 24 July, and ends Saturday 30 July
2011. The conference will be held in Banja Luka, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.


DebConf will be preceded by DebCamp, from Sunday 17 July to Saturday 23
July 2011. DebCamp is a smaller, less formal event giving an opportunity
for group work on Debian projects.


On Sunday 24 July 2011, DebConf Open Day will take place at the site. The
Open Day is a short conference aimed at Debian users, and others interested
in learning more about free software.


More information about DebConf11 can be found on the [conference website](https://debconf11.debconf.org/).


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



