
New round of Debian IRC Training Sessions
=========================================


**June 17th, 2011**


The Debian project is pleased to announce the forthcoming start of a
new round of IRC Training Sessions, which will be held on IRC by
experienced community members. There will be two different series of
sessions:


1. Ask the ..., dealing with the organization and structure of
the Debian project, will consist of talks delivered by people who have a
specific role within the Debian organization, taking a closer look at the
Debian infrastructure and constitution, plus a Q&A part.
2. One day with ..., a more technical session, during which
people from various essential Debian teams will talk about their
packages, day-to-day tasks, and specific issues.


All sessions will be held on #debian-meeting channel on
irc.debian.org.
The first session, scheduled for Wednesday 22th at 19:00 UTC, will be
Ask the DPL: Stefano Zacchiroli, current Debian Project Leader, will
tell us about what exactly the DPL does, according to the constitution,
folklore, and personal experience.
Future sessions will be held on a regular basis, and will deal with
various aspects of the Debian organization and different teams.
Please, visit the official [wiki page](https://wiki.debian.org/IRC/debian-meeting) regularly
to check the up-to-date agenda and follow [us on identi.ca](https://identi.ca/debian).
You may also refer to the wiki to suggest new topics or sign yourself up
as a trainer: we are always looking for more people to share knowledge
and complete the schedule, so don't be shy!


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



