
DebConf11 call for contributions
================================


**April 8th, 2011**


We invite submissions of proposals for papers, presentations,
discussion sessions and tutorials for Debconf11. Submissions don't
have to be limited to traditional talks, you could propose
a performance, art installation, debate, or anything else. Official
submissions will be accepted until May 8th 2011, 23.59 UTC.


This year submission of a formal written paper for the conference
proceedings is again optional, though encouraged. Providing a written
paper in advance means that interested people can attend your session
ready with ideas for discussion, and especially helps those who find
it hard to follow rapid English speech.


DebConf talks will be broadcast live on the Internet where possible,
and videos of the talks will be published on the web along with the
presentation slides and papers. Talks+Q&A should be 45 minutes long,
with a 15 minute break between events.


This year, we will continue to organize talks into tracks. If you
have a proposal for a DebConf track, such as Debian Science, Debian
Infrastructure, or Community Outreach, please contact
[debconf-team@lists.debconf.org](mailto:debconf-team@lists.debconf.org).
If you would like to be a track
coordinator, please volunteer on that list. Talks will be added to
tracks at a later date.


There will be a poster session this year. Posters allow you to present
information throughout the week, instead of just at a single talk.
A poster can help to reach a broader audience or promote a weeklong
discussion.


For up to date information, and information on submission of events or
posters, please see <https://debconf11.debconf.org/cfp.xhtml>.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to
a full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf
provides an opportunity for developers, contributors and other
interested people to meet in person and work together more closely. It
has taken place annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Canada,
Finland, Mexico, Scotland, and Argentina.


DebConf11 will take place in Banja Luka, in Republika Srpska, Bosnia
and Herzegovina from Sunday 24th to Saturday 30th July, 2011.


DebConf will be preceded by DebCamp, from Sunday 17th to Saturday 23rd
July, 2011. DebCamp is a smaller, less formal event intended for group
work on Debian projects.


If you are interested in helping by working as a volunteer during
DebConf, please contact [debconf-team@lists.debconf.org](mailto:debconf-team@lists.debconf.org).


If you or your company are interested in sponsoring DebConf by
donating money or lending equipment, please contact the sponsorship
team at [sponsors@debconf.org](mailto:sponsors@debconf.org).


More information about DebConf11 can be found on the conference
website: <https://debconf11.debconf.org/>.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



