
Government of Republika Srpska to support upcoming DebConf11
============================================================


**June 4th, 2011**


The Debian project would like to announce a meeting held between the
representatives of the government of Republika Srpska and DebConf11 representatives on the
occasion of the upcoming Debian conference, DebConf11, to be held in Banja
Luka, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina.


The meeting with the Minister of Science and Technology, Prof. Dr. Jasmin
Komić, was to discuss the upcoming DebConf11 and to familiarize the Debian
representatives with the city and the venue for the conference. The
DebConf11 delegation consisted of Dr. Moray Allan, Holger Levsen and a
representative of the NGO DIVA from Tuzla, Adnan Hodžić.



Prof. Dr. Jasmin Komić expressed support for the conference in his official
capacity for the Republika Srpska and said we expect that this
conference, which was held in New York last year, will enable significant
promotion of Republika Srpska and the City of Banja Luka on the
international IT scene.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place annually
since 2000 in locations as varied as Spain, Argentina, and the United
States.


Previous Debian Conferences have featured speakers from around the
world. They have also been extremely beneficial for developing key Debian
software components, including the new Debian Installer, and for improving
Debian's internationalization.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



