
Debian moves to LibreOffice
===========================


**June 23rd, 2011**


 The Debian project is proud to announce that the transition from
OpenOffice.org to LibreOffice has now been completed. LibreOffice has already
been available for testing and unstable since March and has now
been backported to Debian 6.0 Squeeze, too. 


 Rene Engelhard, Debian's LibreOffice maintainer and member of LibreOffice's
Engineering Steering Committee, says: I am sure Debian and its users will
benefit greatly from this transition; I expect not only an improved
collaboration but also quicker development cycles.


Installation of LibreOffice
---------------------------


 Interested users of the current stable release Debian 6.0 Squeeze may add
the following line in their /etc/apt/sources.list file:




```

deb http://backports.debian.org/debian-backports squeeze-backports main

```


After adding this, perform an update and install the package
libreoffice from the squeeze-backports suite using the
package management software of your choice (e.g.
apt-get update ; apt-get install -t squeeze-backports libreoffice
). Previously installed OpenOffice.org
packages should be uninstalled automatically. Depending on the used desktop
environment, you might also have to install the libreoffice-gtk,
libreoffice-gnome or libreoffice-kde packages.



More information on backports can be found on the [backports.debian.org webpage](https://backports.debian.org/).



About LibreOffice
-----------------



LibreOffice is a free software office suite developed by The Document Foundation
as a fork of OpenOffice.org.



About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



