
DebConf12 Nicaragua dates confirmed
===================================


**November 2nd, 2011**



DebConf12 to take place in Managua, Nicaragua in July 2012
-----------------------------------------------------------



The Debian Project,
the team behind the free Debian operating system,
has confirmed the dates and venue for its next annual conference,
DebConf12.




The conference will take place from July 8 to July 14 2012, in
Managua, Nicaragua. In DebConf's twelve-year history, this will be the
first time it will be held in Central America.




Every year, DebConf allows new and existing Debian project participants
from around the world to assemble, share knowledge, make collaborative
contributions to Debian, and build tighter community bonds. Conference
costs are largely funded by corporate sponsors who find significant
value in enabling Debian's success.




The members of the Debian community in Nicaragua, working together with
their fellow communities in Central America, are very excited to be
hosting this event, and are happy to welcome our colleagues from around
the world to join us in Managua at this very important and productive
conference says Leandro Gómez, leader of the local team for DebConf12. This
conference will boost the local Debian and Free Software communities and
help to bring awareness for the Debian Project, with new contributors
and enthusiasts from our country and the surrounding region joining the
Debian community and helping Debian to build the best operating system.




DebConf will be preceded by a day when it opens its doors to the general
public, commonly called Debian Day. There will be talks and
demonstrations about the benefits of Debian and Free and Open Source
software in general to corporate, governmental, academic, and individual
users.




The call for papers and registration will open in early 2012.




DebConf12 will be preceded by DebCamp, the yearly developer work
sessions, starting on July 1.




The final calendar of the event is:



* July 1-7 2012: DebCamp, the yearly developer work sessions
* July 7 2012: Debian Day
* July 8-14 2012: DebConf12
* July 15 2012: Departure/cleanup day


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who
volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free
operating system Debian GNU/Linux.



About DebConf
-------------



DebConf is the annual Debian conference, which has taken place since
2000 in places as varied as Canada, Finland and Argentina. Several
hundred developers, contributors, and users gather each year at
a new location to further ideas, cooperate, and socialise. More
information about DebConf is available from the [Debconf website](https://debconf.org).



Contact Information
-------------------



For further information, please visit the [DebConf12 web pages](https://debconf12.debconf.org/)
or send mail to
<press@debconf.org>.




