
Debian invites you to Debian Day
================================


**July 12th, 2011**


The Debian Project, the team behind the free Debian
operating system, would like to invite you to participate in the upcoming
Debian Day which will take place on July 24 2011 at Banski Dvor,
Banja Luka, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the first day of
the annual Debian Conference.


During Debian Day, the conference opens its doors to anyone interested
in finding out more about Debian and Free Software, inviting enthusiasts,
users, and developers to a full day of talks on several subjects — such as Free
Software in government and enterprise, and involvement —
as well as a string of talks about the Debian Project and operating
system.


After the Debian Day opening plenary session, during which
Adnan Hodzic
will welcome attendees, the talks that follow will include:


* Understanding Debian, by Bdale Garbee
* My life with Free Software, by Enrico Zini
* How to contribute and get involved, by Alexander
 Reichle-Schmehl and Meike Reichle
* Debian in enterprise: a Google case study, by Guido Trotter and
 Jesus Climent
* Austrian e-health system by Gerfried Fuchs


Debian Day is free of charge and open for everybody interested in
Free Software. More information about it, and a complete schedule, can
be found at the [Debian Day page](http://www.debianday.org).


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social, and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors, and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Canada, Finland, and
Mexico. More information is available from the [DebConf website](https://debconf.org/).


About DebConf11
---------------


More information about DebConf11 can be found on the [conference website](https://debconf11.debconf.org/)
or by contacting the DebConf Global
Press Team at <press@debconf.org>.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



