
Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 archived
=============================


**January 10th, 2007**


The old stable release Debian GNU/Linux (codename 'woody') has been
archived. The official source for this distribution is the dedicated
archive host called [archive.debian.org](http://archive.debian.org/debian-archive/dists/woody/). It is no longer available on
regular Debian mirror servers.


After four and a half years this marks the final end of life for
Debian GNU/Linux 3.0. This distribution has been superseded by Debian
GNU/Linux 3.1 (codename 'sarge') which the Debian project has released
on June 6th, 2005. Security support for woody has therefore ended
already in June 2006, one year after the release of sarge.


The Debian security team is able to support up to two distributions at
the same time for about one year. This way users are given a one year
period to upgrade their systems to the current stable distribution.
After this period security support for the old stable distribution is
discontinued and the distribution itself is archived on the dedicated
archive host.


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project is an organisation of more than a thousand Free
Software developers from all over the world who volunteer their time
and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system
Debian GNU/Linux. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its
non-profit nature, and its open development model make it unique.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



