
Debian participates in Google's Summer of Code
==============================================


**May 8th, 2006**


The Debian project participates in this year's Summer of Code. More
than 50 development tasks cover general improvements, quality
assurance, releasing and testing the distribution, package management,
new applications, security, infrastructure and the improvement of
particular packages. For these tasks students will be assigned a
Debian developer acting as their mentor. The coordinator for Debian's
participation is Baruch Even [baruch@debian.org](mailto:baruch@debian.org).


The Summer of Code encourages interested students to participate in
open source development and gain additional programming experience.
They get to work on an open source project of their choice for three
months. Some ideas are more coding-intensive, while others need a
stronger theoretical background.


Students can apply to the Summer of Code and a particular task from
May 1st to May 8th (17:00 Pacific Daylight Time). Google routes to
the mentor organisation, and the proposals are ranked by mentors
working with those organisations. On May 23rd Google will publish the
list of accepted student proposals. Participants will work on
fulfilling the tasks until August 21st.


Debian's task proposals are listed in the [Wiki](https://wiki.debian.org/SummerOfCode2006).


The Summer of Code is documented on Google's [website](http://code.google.com/soc/).


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project is an organisation of more than thousand Free
Software developers from all over the world who volunteer their time
and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system
Debian GNU/Linux. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its
non-profit nature, and its open development model make it unique.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



