
Debian Project elects Stefano Zacchiroli as next Project Leader
===============================================================


**April 16th, 2010**


In accordance with its [constitution](https://www.debian.org/devel/constitution) the Debian Project has elected Stefano
Zacchiroli as Debian project leader for the 2010/2011 term. Stefano has
been a Debian Developer since March 2001 and is a long-term contributor to
several core services such as Debian's Package Tracking System and its
Quality Assurance Team. Upon his election win he said: I can't be more
proud of being a member of the Debian project. The number of developers
which took part in our democratic election process – as candidates,
voters, and campaigning participants – makes me really happy. I'm also a
bit scared now, rest assured that I'll do my best to be up to the
expectations of all Debian contributors.


The outgoing project leader, Steve McIntyre, was first elected in 2008.
After serving for two years, Steve chose not to run for a third term.
Steve congratulates Stefano: I've had a great time working for Debian as
DPL and I'm more than happy to be handing over the reigns to Stefano. He
has excellent ideas and should do a good job for us. The Debian project
would like to thank Steve for his great work and constant commitment
to the project.


The candidates for this year's election were Stefano Zacchiroli, Wouter
Verhelst, Charles Plessy and Margarita Manterola. After a six week election
period the Debian project chose Stefano Zacchiroli to be its next project
leader. Debian uses the Condorcet voting method for project leader elections. The
detailed election results can be found at the
[voting page](https://www.debian.org/vote/2010/vote_001).


About Debian
------------


Debian GNU/Linux is a free operating system, developed by more than a
thousand volunteers from all over the world who collaborate via the
Internet. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its non-profit nature,
and its open development model make it unique among GNU/Linux
distributions.


The Debian project's key strengths are its volunteer base, its
dedication to the Debian Social Contract, and its commitment to provide
the best operating system possible.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian
web pages at <https://www.debian.org/>
or send mail to <[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)>.



