
Security Support for Debian 4.0 to be terminated
================================================


**January 21st, 2010**


Security Support for Debian GNU/Linux 4.0 to be terminated on February 15th
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


One year after the release of Debian GNU/Linux 5.0 alias lenny and
nearly three years after the release of Debian GNU/Linux 4.0 alias
etch the security support for the old distribution (4.0 alias
etch) is coming to an end next month. The Debian project is proud
to be able to support its old distribution for such a long time and
even for one year after a new version has been released.


The Debian project released Debian GNU/Linux 5.0 alias lenny on
the 15th of February 2009. Users and distributors have been given a
one-year timeframe to upgrade their old installations to the current
stable release. Hence, the security support for the old release of
4.0 is going to end in February 2010 as previously announced.


Previously announced security updates for the old release will continue
to be available on security.debian.org.


Security Updates
----------------


The Debian Security Team provides security updates for the current
distribution via <<http://security.debian.org/>>. Security updates for the
old distribution are also provided for one year after the new
distribution has been released or until the current distribution is
superseded, whatever happens first.


Upgrading to Debian 5.0 alias lenny
-----------------------------------


Upgrades to Debian GNU/Linux 5.0 from the previous release, Debian
GNU/Linux 4.0 alias etch, are automatically handled by the
aptitude package management tool for most configurations, and to a
certain degree also by the apt-get package management tool. As always,
Debian GNU/Linux systems can be upgraded painlessly, in place, without
any forced downtime, but it is strongly recommended to read the [release
notes](https://www.debian.org/releases/lenny/releasenotes) for possible issues, and for detailed instructions on
installing and upgrading.


About Debian
------------


Debian GNU/Linux is a free operating system, developed by more than
thousand volunteers from all over the world who collaborate via the
Internet. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its non-profit nature,
and its open development model make it unique among GNU/Linux
distributions.


The Debian project's key strengths are its volunteer base, its dedication
to the Debian Social Contract, and its commitment to provide the best
operating system possible. Debian 5.0 is another important step in that
direction.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



