
Debian to officially welcome non-packaging contributors
=======================================================


**October 19th, 2010**


Today, the Debian Project has overwhelmingly decided in a [General Resolution](https://www.debian.org/vote/2010/vote_002) to
formally acknowledge the contribution made by many people who help Debian in
ways other than maintaining packages - by opening up the process of
becoming an officially recognised Debian Developer.


While the Debian Project has always welcomed non-packaging contributors,
for example documentation writers and translators, there was low takeup of
official Debian Developer status (including full voting rights and other
privileges). As there was no clear documented procedure for these
non-packaging contributors, it was handled on a case-by-case basis.


It was decided to end this nuisance by finally welcoming all contributors,
regardless of the nature of their contribution into the heart of the
Debian Project and invite the Debian Account Managers to establish
procedures to evaluate and accept non-packaging contributors.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free, community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Over three
thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Translated into over 30 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



