
First Debian Mini Conference to be held in Germany
==================================================


**April 8th, 2010**


The Debian Project, the team behind the free Debian operating system,
is pleased to announce that the first Debian Mini Conference in Germany
will take place on the 10th and 11th of June in Berlin as a subconference of
this year's LinuxTag. LinuxTag is one of the most important Open
Source Events in Europe and takes place from June 9th to 12th on the
Berlin Fairgrounds.


The program of the two day Conference will offer talks, workshops and
panel discussion for an audience ranging from Debian Developers and
Maintainers to contributors, users and otherwise interested persons.
In parallel to the conference, in a neighbouring *hacking area*, a Bug
Squashing Party will be held, where time will be spent on fixing remaining
release critical bugs, running upgrade tests and working on the release
notes for the upcoming release, Debian 6.0 Squeeze.


No registration is necessary to attend the Debian Mini Conference, but
a ticket for the LinuxTag (available upon request) is needed. The
Conference is being planned via [the DebConf
Wiki](http://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/Miniconf-LT-Berlin/2010).


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free, community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Over three
thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Translated into over 30 languages and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.


About Mini-DebConf
------------------


A Mini-DebConf is a Debian-Project developer conference, which is
fewer attendees compared to the full DebConf
held annually by the Debian project. It still features a full schedule
of technical, social and policy talks, and thus a Mini-DebConf provides
an opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people
to meet in person and work together closely. Just like their bigger
counterpart, the regular DebConf, Mini-DebConfs have taken place many
times since 2000 in locations all over the world: Europe, America,
Asia and Australia.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
[www.debian.org](https://www.debian.org/) or send mail to
<[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)> or <[thommes@linuxtag.org](mailto:thommes@linuxtag.org)>.



