
2010 Annual Debian Conference - World's Largest GNU/Linux Distribution Developers' Conference about to start
============================================================================================================


**July 30th, 2010**


The Debian Project, the team behind the free Debian GNU/Linux operating
system, would like to invite you to participate in the upcoming Debian
Conference which will take place from August 1 to 7, 2010, at New York
City's Columbia University in cooperation with the Columbia Computer
Science department. This year's conference is the first DebConf to be held
in the United States in the 11-year history of the event. This year, more
than 300 developers from all over the world, including Brazil, Argentina,
Bosnia, Mexico, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, New Zealand, Australia,
Venezuela, and Latvia, will participate.  
  
 More information is
available at <https://debconf10.debconf.org/>.


Every year, DebConf allows new and existing Debian project
participants from around the world to assemble, share knowledge and
ideas, make collaborative contributions to Debian, and build tighter
community bonds. Conference costs are largely supported by corporate
sponsors who find significant interest in supporting Debian and
DebConfs.


For the first time, Debconf will host tracks, featuring a cluster
of talks linked by a common theme. These include tracks on Science/Math,
Java, Enterprise Systems, Debian Community Outreach, and Media and Art in
Debian. Other talks will cover technical, licensing, and community issues
by a host of Debian developers and other leaders in the Free Software
community. Eben Moglen, Chairman of the Software Freedom Law Center and
Professor of Law at Columbia University will be our [plenary
speaker on August 3, at 10:00 AM](http://penta.debconf.org/dc10_schedule/events/641.en.html).


DebConf includes Debian Day, being held on August 1st, when the
conference opens its doors to anyone interested in finding out more
about Debian and Free Software. During this event, there will be a
full day of talks on a variety of subjects such as Free Software
advocacy, Free Software usability, and a number of talks on the Debian
project and operating system itself. One of the hilights of this year's
Debian Day will be the talk by the Honourable Gale Brewer, member
of the New York City Council, on How Government can Foster Freedom in
Technology at 04:00 PM.  
  

More information on Debian Day, including a schedule, are available at
<http://www.debianday.org/>.


Video Streams for most talks available
--------------------------------------


Similar to previous years, people unable to attend the conference will
be able to participate by watching video streams and comment via IRC
channels. More details about the video streams are available at <https://debconf10.debconf.org>. To comment on
sessions, please join the irc channels #debconf-davis and
#debconf-interschool respectively on irc.debian.org.
The complete schedule of the conference is available in different formats at <http://penta.debconf.org/dc10_schedule/index.en.html>
but please note, that new events and ad hoc sessions will be added during
the conference.


About Debian
------------


Debian is a free computer operating system. Over three
thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Translated into over 30 languages, and supporting
a huge range of computer architectures, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system and is the largest free software project
in the world. In the United States, Debian is backed by Software in the
Public Interest, Inc., a not-for-profit public charity as described in
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place annually
since 2000 in locations as varied as Canada, Finland, and Mexico. More
information about DebConf is available from <https://debconf.org/>.


More Information
----------------


More information about DebConf10 can be found on the conference website
at <https://debconf10.debconf.org/> or
by contacting the DebConf Global Press Team at press@debconf.org.



