## News

Debian has several news feeds, that can be interesting for different audiences, depending on how they use Debian:

## General news

### Latest News

#### Updated Debian 12: 12.2 released

October 7th, 2023 The Debian project is pleased to announce the second update of its stable distribution Debian 12 (codename bookworm). This point release mainly adds corrections for security issues, along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Please note that the point release does not constitute a new version of Debian 12 but only updates some of the packages included. There is no need to throw away old bookworm media. After installation, packages can be upgraded to the current versions using an up-to-date Debian mirror. Those who frequently install updates from security.debian.org won't have to update many packages, and most such updates are included in the point release. New installation images will be available soon at the regular locations. Upgrading an existing installation to this revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: This stable update adds a few important corrections to the following packages: This revision adds the following security updates to the stable release. The Security Team has already released an advisory for each of these updates: The following packages were removed due to circumstances beyond our control: The installer has been updated to include the fixes incorporated into stable by the point release. The complete lists of packages that have changed with this revision: The current stable distribution: Proposed updates to the stable distribution: stable distribution information (release notes, errata etc.): Security announcements and information: The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system Debian. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/, send mail to <press@debian.org>, or contact the stable release team at <debian-release@lists.debian.org>.

#### Updated Debian 11: 11.8 released

October 7th, 2023 The Debian project is pleased to announce the eighth update of its oldstable distribution Debian 11 (codename bullseye). This point release mainly adds corrections for security issues, along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Please note that the point release does not constitute a new version of Debian 11 but only updates some of the packages included. There is no need to throw away old bullseye media. After installation, packages can be upgraded to the current versions using an up-to-date Debian mirror. Those who frequently install updates from security.debian.org won't have to update many packages, and most such updates are included in the point release. New installation images will be available soon at the regular locations. Upgrading an existing installation to this revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: This oldstable update adds a few important corrections to the following packages: This revision adds the following security updates to the oldstable release. The Security Team has already released an advisory for each of these updates: The following packages were removed due to circumstances beyond our control: The installer has been updated to include the fixes incorporated into oldstable by the point release. The complete lists of packages that have changed with this revision: The current oldstable distribution: Proposed updates to the oldstable distribution: oldstable distribution information (release notes, errata etc.): Security announcements and information: The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system Debian. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/, send mail to <press@debian.org>, or contact the stable release team at <debian-release@lists.debian.org>.

#### DebConf23 closes in Kochi and DebConf24 location announced

September 18th, 2023 Yesterday, Sunday 17 September 2023, the annual Debian Developers and Contributors Conference came to a close. Over 474 attendees representing 35 countries from around the world came together for a combined 89 events made up of Talks, Discussons, Birds of a Feather (BoF) gatherings, workshops, and activities in support of furthering our distribution, learning from our mentors and peers, building our community, and having a bit of fun. The conference was preceded by the annual DebCamp hacking session held September 3d through September 9th where Debian Developers and Contributors convened to focus on their Individual Debian related projects or work in team sprints geared toward in-person collaboration in developing Debian. In particular this year Sprints took place to advance development in Mobian/Debian, Reproducible Builds, and Python in Debian. This year also featured a BootCamp that was held for newcomers staged by a team of dedicated mentors who shared hands-on experience in Debian and offered a deeper understanding of how to work in and contribute to the community. The actual Debian Developers Conference started on Sunday 10, September 2023. In addition to the traditional 'Bits from the DPL' talk, the continuous key-signing party, lightning talks and the announcement of next year's DebConf24, there were several update sessions shared by internal projects and teams. Many of the hosted discussion sessions were presented by our technical teams who highlighted the work and focus of the Long Term Support (LTS), Android tools, Debian Derivatives, Debian Installer, Debian Image, and the Debian Science teams. The Python, Perl, and Ruby programming language teams also shared updates on their work and efforts. Two of the larger local Debian communities, Debian Brasil and Debian India shared how their respective collaborations in Debian moved the project forward and how they attracted new members and opportunities both in Debian, F/OSS, and the sciences with their HowTos of demonstrated community engagement. The schedule was updated each day with planned and ad-hoc activities introduced by attendees over the course of the conference. Several activities that were unable to be held in past years due to the Global COVID-19 Pandemic were celebrated as they returned to the conference's schedule: a job fair, the open-mic and poetry night, the traditional Cheese and Wine party, the group photos and the Day Trips. For those who were not able to attend, most of the talks and sessions were videoed for live room streams with the recorded videos to be made available later through the Debian meetings archive website. Almost all of the sessions facilitated remote participation via IRC messaging apps or online collaborative text documents which allowed remote attendees to 'be in the room' to ask questions or share comments with the speaker or assembled audience. DebConf23 saw over 4.3 TiB of data streamed, 55 hours of scheduled talks, 23 network access points, 11 network switches, 75 kg of equipment imported, 400 meters of gaffer tape used, 1,463 viewed streaming hours, 461 T-shirts, 35 country Geoip viewers, 5 day trips, and an average of 169 meals planned per day. All of these events, activies, conversations, and streams coupled with our love, interest, and participation in Debian annd F/OSS certainly made this conference an overall success both here in Kochi, India and On-line around the world. The DebConf23 website will remain active for archival purposes and will continue to offer links to the presentations and videos of talks and events. Next year, DebConf24 will be held in Haifa, Israel. As tradition follows before the next DebConf the local organizers in Israel will start the conference activites with DebCamp with particular focus on individual and team work towards improving the distribution. DebConf is committed to a safe and welcome environment for all participants. See the web page about the Code of Conduct in DebConf23 website for more details on this. Debian thanks the commitment of numerous sponsors to support DebConf23, particularly our Platinum Sponsors: Infomaniak, Proxmox, and Siemens. We also wish to thank our Video and Infrastructure teams, the DebConf23 and DebConf commitiees, our host nation of India, and each and every person who helped contribute to this event and to Debian overall. Thank you all for your work in helping Debian continue to be "The Universal Operating System". See you next year! The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of volunteers from all over the world work together to create and maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the universal operating system. DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Scotland, Argentina, and Bosnia and Herzegovina. More information about DebConf is available from https://debconf.org. Infomaniak is a key player in the European cloud market and the leading developer of Web technologies in Switzerland. It aims to be an independent European alternative to the web giants and is committed to an ethical and sustainable Web that respects privacy and creates local jobs. Infomaniak develops cloud solutions (IaaS, PaaS, VPS), productivity tools for online collaboration and video and radio streaming services. Proxmox develops powerful, yet easy-to-use open-source server software. The product portfolio from Proxmox, including server virtualization, backup, and email security, helps companies of any size, sector, or industry to simplify their IT infrastructures. The Proxmox solutions are based on the great Debian platform, and we are happy that we can give back to the community by sponsoring DebConf23. Siemens is technology company focused on industry, infrastructure and transport. From resource-efficient factories, resilient supply chains, smarter buildings and grids, to cleaner and more comfortable transportation, and advanced healthcare, the company creates technology with purpose adding real value for customers. By combining the real and the digital worlds, Siemens empowers its customers to transform their industries and markets, helping them to enhance the everyday of billions of people. For further information, please visit the DebConf23 web page at https://debconf23.debconf.org/ or send mail to <press@debian.org>.

#### The Debian Project mourns the loss of Abraham Raji

September 14th, 2023 The Debian Project has lost a member of its community. On 13th September 2023 Abraham Raji was involved in a fatal accident during a kayaking trip. Abraham was a popular and respected Debian Developer as well a prominent free software champion in his home state of Kerala, India. He was a talented graphic designer and led design and branding work for DebConf23 and several other local events in recent years. Abraham gave his time selflessly when mentoring new contributors to the Debian project, and he was instrumental in creating and maintaining the Debian India website. The Debian Project honors his good work and strong dedication to Debian and Free Software. Abraham’s contributions will not be forgotten, and the high standards of his work will continue to serve as an inspiration to others. The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who volunteer their time and effort in order to produce a completely free operating system known as Debian. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/ or send mail to <press@debian.org>.

#### Updated Debian 12: 12.1 released

July 22nd, 2023 The Debian project is pleased to announce the first update of its stable distribution Debian 12 (codename bookworm). This point release mainly adds corrections for security issues, along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Please note that the point release does not constitute a new version of Debian 12 but only updates some of the packages included. There is no need to throw away old bookworm media. After installation, packages can be upgraded to the current versions using an up-to-date Debian mirror. Those who frequently install updates from security.debian.org won't have to update many packages, and most such updates are included in the point release. New installation images will be available soon at the regular locations. Upgrading an existing installation to this revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: This stable update adds a few important corrections to the following packages: This revision adds the following security updates to the stable release. The Security Team has already released an advisory for each of these updates: The installer has been updated to include the fixes incorporated into stable by the point release. The complete lists of packages that have changed with this revision: The current stable distribution: Proposed updates to the stable distribution: stable distribution information (release notes, errata etc.): Security announcements and information: The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system Debian. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/, send mail to <press@debian.org>, or contact the stable release team at <debian-release@lists.debian.org>.

#### Debian 12 bookworm released

June 10th, 2023 After 1 year, 9 months, and 28 days of development, the Debian project is proud to present its new stable version 12 (code name bookworm). bookworm will be supported for the next 5 years thanks to the combined work of the Debian Security team and the Debian Long Term Support team. Following the 2022 General Resolution about non-free firmware, we have introduced a new archive area making it possible to separate non-free firmware from the other non-free packages:  Debian 12 bookworm ships with several desktop environments, such as: This release contains over 11,089 new packages for a total count of 64,419 packages, while over 6,296 packages have been removed as obsolete. 43,254 packages were updated in this release. The overall disk usage for bookworm is 365,016,420 kB (365 GB), and is made up of 1,341,564,204 lines of code. bookworm has more translated man pages than ever thanks to our translators who have made man-pages available in multiple languages such as: Czech, Danish, Greek, Finnish, Indonesian, Macedonian, Norwegian (Bokmål), Russian, Serbian, Swedish, Ukrainian, and Vietnamese. All of the systemd man pages are now completely available in German. The Debian Med Blend introduces a new package: shiny-server which simplifies scientific web applications using R. We have kept to our efforts of providing Continuous Integration support for Debian Med team packages. Install the metapackages at version 3.8.x for Debian bookworm. The Debian Astro Blend continues to provide a one-stop solution for professional astronomers, enthusiasts, and hobbyists with updates to almost all versions of the software packages in the blend. astap and planetary-system-stacker help with image stacking and astrometry resolution. openvlbi, the open source correlator, is now included. Support for Secure Boot on ARM64 has been reintroduced: users of UEFI-capable ARM64 hardware can boot with Secure Boot mode enabled to take full advantage of the security feature. Debian 12 bookworm includes numerous updated software packages (over 67% of all packages from the previous release), such as:  With this broad selection of packages and its traditional wide architecture support, Debian once again stays true to its goal of being The Universal Operating System. It is suitable for many different use cases: from desktop systems to netbooks; from development servers to cluster systems; and for database, web, and storage servers. At the same time, additional quality assurance efforts like automatic installation and upgrade tests for all packages in Debian's archive ensure that bookworm fulfills the high expectations that users have of a stable Debian release. A total of nine architectures are officially supported for bookworm:  The Debian Cloud team publishes bookworm for several cloud computing services:  GRUB packages will by default no longer run os-prober for other operating systems. Between releases, the Technical Committee resolved that Debian bookworm should support only the merged-usr root filesystem layout, dropping support for the non-merged-usr layout. For systems installed as buster or bullseye there will be no changes to the filesystem; however, systems using the older layout will be converted during the upgrade. If you simply want to try Debian 12 bookworm without installing it, you can use one of the available live images which load and run the complete operating system in a read-only state via your computer's memory. These live images are provided for the amd64 and i386 architectures and are available for DVDs, USB sticks, and netboot setups. The user can choose among different desktop environments to try: GNOME, KDE Plasma, LXDE, LXQt, MATE, and Xfce. Debian Live bookworm has a standard live image, so it is also possible to try a base Debian system without any of the graphical user interfaces. Should you enjoy the operating system you have the option of installing from the live image onto your computer's hard disk. The live image includes the Calamares independent installer as well as the standard Debian Installer. More information is available in the release notes and the live install images sections of the Debian website. To install Debian 12 bookworm directly onto your computer's storage device you can choose from a variety of installation media types to Download such as: Blu-ray Disc, DVD, CD, USB stick, or via a network connection. See the Installation Guide for more details. Debian can now be installed in 78 languages, with most of them available in both text-based and graphical user interfaces. The installation images may be downloaded right now via bittorrent (the recommended method), jigdo, or HTTP; see Debian on CDs for further information. bookworm will soon be available on physical DVD, CD-ROM, and Blu-ray Discs from numerous vendors too. Upgrades to Debian 12 bookworm from the previous release, Debian 11 bullseye, are automatically handled by the APT package management tool for most configurations. Before upgrading your system, it is strongly recommended that you make a full backup, or at least back up any data or configuration information you can't afford to lose. The upgrade tools and process are quite reliable, but a hardware failure in the middle of an upgrade could result in a severely damaged system. The main things you'll want to back up are the contents of /etc, /var/lib/dpkg, /var/lib/apt/extended_states and the output of: $ dpkg --get-selections '*' # (the quotes are important) We welcome any information from users related to the upgrade from bullseye to bookworm. Please share information by filing a bug in the Debian bug tracking system using the upgrade-reports package with your results. There has been a lot of development to the Debian Installer resulting in improved hardware support and other features such as fixes to graphical support on UTM, fixes to the GRUB font loader, removing the long wait at the end of the installation process, and fixes to the detection of BIOS-bootable systems. This version of the Debian Installer may enable non-free-firmware where needed. The ntp package has been replaced with the ntpsec package, with the default system clock service now being systemd-timesyncd; there is also support for chrony and openntpd. As non-free firmware has been moved to its own component in the archive, if you have non-free firmware installed it is recommended to add non-free-firmware to your APT sources-list. It is advisable to remove bullseye-backports entries from APT source-list files before the upgrade; after the upgrade consider adding bookworm-backports. For bookworm, the security suite is named bookworm-security; users should adapt their APT source-list files accordingly when upgrading. If your APT configuration also involves pinning or APT::Default-Release, it is likely to require adjustments to allow the upgrade of packages to the new stable release. Please consider disabling APT pinning. The OpenLDAP 2.5 upgrade includes some incompatible changes which may require manual intervention. Depending on configuration the slapd service may remain stopped after the upgrade until new configuration updates are completed. The new systemd-resolved package will not be installed automatically on upgrades as it has been split into a separate package. If using the systemd-resolved system service, please install the new package manually after the upgrade, and note that until it has been installed, DNS resolution may no longer work as the service will not be present on the system. There are some changes to system logging; the rsyslog package is no longer needed on most systems, and is not installed by default. Users may change to journalctl or use the new high precision timestamps that rsyslog now uses. Possible issues during the upgrade include Conflicts or Pre-Depends loops which can be solved by removing and eliminating some packages or forcing the re-installation of other packages. Additional concerns are Could not perform immediate configuration ... errors for which one will need to keep both bullseye (that was just removed) and bookworm (that was just added) in the APT source-list file, and File Conflicts which may require one to forcibly remove packages. As mentioned, backing the system up is the key to a smooth upgrade should any untoward errors occur. There are some packages where Debian cannot promise to provide minimal backports for security issues. Please see the Limitations in security support. As always, Debian systems may be upgraded painlessly, in place, without any forced downtime, but it is strongly recommended to read the release notes as well as the installation guide for possible issues, and for detailed instructions on installing and upgrading. The release notes will be further improved and translated to additional languages in the weeks after the release. Debian is a free operating system, developed by thousands of volunteers from all over the world who collaborate via the Internet. The Debian project's key strengths are its volunteer base, its dedication to the Debian Social Contract and Free Software, and its commitment to provide the best operating system possible. This new release is another important step in that direction. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/ or send mail to <press@debian.org>.

#### Updated Debian 11: 11.7 released

April 29th, 2023 The Debian project is pleased to announce the seventh update of its stable distribution Debian 11 (codename bullseye). This point release mainly adds corrections for security issues, along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Please note that the point release does not constitute a new version of Debian 11 but only updates some of the packages included. There is no need to throw away old bullseye media. After installation, packages can be upgraded to the current versions using an up-to-date Debian mirror. Those who frequently install updates from security.debian.org won't have to update many packages, and most such updates are included in the point release. New installation images will be available soon at the regular locations. Upgrading an existing installation to this revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: This stable update adds a few important corrections to the following packages: This revision adds the following security updates to the stable release. The Security Team has already released an advisory for each of these updates: The following packages were removed due to circumstances beyond our control: The installer has been updated to include the fixes incorporated into stable by the point release. The complete lists of packages that have changed with this revision: The current stable distribution: Proposed updates to the stable distribution: stable distribution information (release notes, errata etc.): Security announcements and information: The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free operating system Debian. For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at https://www.debian.org/, send mail to <press@debian.org>, or contact the stable release team at <debian-release@lists.debian.org>.

### Debian Project News

#### Debian Project News - August 5th, 2023

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Those remembering the Debian Weekly News (DwN) will recognize some of the sections here which served as our inspiration. Debian Project Bits posts will allow for a faster turnaround of some project news on a monthly basis. The Debian Micronews service will continue to share shorter news items, the Debian Project News remains as our official newsletter which may move to a biannual archive format. Debian Day The Debian Project was officially founded by Ian Murdock on August 16, 1993. Since then we have celebrated our Anniversary of that date each year with events around the world. We would love it if you could join our revels this very special year as we have the honor of turning 30! Attend or organize a local Debian Day celebration. You are invited to plan your own event: from Bug Squashing parties to Key Signing parties, Meet-Ups, or any type of social event whether large or small. And be sure to check our Debian reimbursement How To if you need such resources. You can share your days, events, thoughts, or notes with us and the rest of the community with the #debianday tag that will be used across most social media platforms. See you then! Upcoming Debian 30 anos The Debian Brasil Community is organizing the event Debian 30 anos to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Debian Project. From August 14 to 18, between 7pm and 22pm (UTC-3) contributors will talk online in Portuguese and we will live stream on Debian Brasil YouTube channel. DebConf23: Debian Developers Camp and Conference The 2023 Debian Developers Camp \(DebCamp) and Conference (DebConf23) will be hosted this year in Infopark, Kochi, India. DebCamp is slated to run from September 3 through 9, immediately followed by the larger DebConf, September 10 through 17. If you are planning on attending the conference this year, now is the time to ensure your travel documentation, visa information, bursary submissions, papers and relevant equipment are prepared. For more information contact: <debconf@debconf.org>. MiniDebConf Cambridge 2023 There will be a MiniDebConf held in Cambridge, UK, hosted by ARM for 4 days in November: 2 days for a mini-DebCamp (Thu 23 - Fri 24), with space for dedicated development / sprint / team meetings, then two days for a more regular MiniDebConf (Sat 25 - Sun 26) with space for more general talks, up to 80 people. Reports During the last months, the Debian Community has organized some Bug Squashing Parties: In January, Debian India hosted the MiniDebConf Tamil Nadu in Viluppuram, Tamil Nadu, India (Sat 28 - Sun 26). The following month, the MiniDebConf Portugal 2023 was held in Lisbon (12 - 16 February 2023). These events, seen as a stunning success by some of their attendees, demonstrate the vitality of our community. Debian Brasil Community at Campus Party Brazil 2023 Another edition of Campus Party Brazil took place in the city of São Paulo between July 25th and 30th. And one more time the Debian Brazil Community was present. During the days in the available space, we carry out some activities such as: For more info and a few photos, check out the organizers report. MiniDebConf Brasília 2023 From May 25 to 27, Brasília hosted the MiniDebConf Brasília 2023. This gathering was composed of various activities such as talks, workshops, sprints, BSPs (Bug Squashing Party), key signings, social events, and hacking, aimed to bring the community together and celebrate the world's largest Free Software project: Debian. For more information please see the full report written by the organizers. Debian Reunion Hamburg 2023 This year the annual Debian Reunion Hamburg was held from Tuesday 23 to 30 May starting with four days of hacking followed by two days of talks, and then two more days of hacking. As usual, people - more than forty-five attendees from Germany, Czechia, France, Slovakia, and Switzerland - were happy to meet in person, to hack and chat together, and much more. If you missed the live streams, the video recordings are available. Translation workshops from the pt_BR team The Brazilian translation team, debian-l10n-portuguese, had their first workshop of 2023 in February with great results. The workshop was aimed at beginners, working in DDTP/DDTSS. For more information please see the full report written by the organizers. And on June 13 another workshop took place to translate The Debian Administrator's Handbook. The main goal was to show beginners how to collaborate in the translation of this important material, which has existed since 2004. The manual's translations are hosted on Weblate. Stable Release Debian 12 bookworm was released on June 10, 2023. This new version becomes the stable release of Debian and moves the prior Debian 11 bullseye release to oldstable status. The Debian community celebrated the release with 23 Release Parties all around the world. Bookworm's first point release 12.1 address miscellaneous bug fixes affecting 88 packages, documentation, and installer updates was made available on July 22, 2023. RISC-V support riscv64 has recently been added to the official Debian architectures for support of 64-bit little-endian RISC-V hardware running the Linux kernel. We expect to have full riscv64 support in Debian 13 trixie. Updates on bootstrap, build daemon, porterbox, and development progress were recently shared by the team in a Bits from the Debian riscv64 porters post. non-free-firmware The Debian 12 bookworm archive now includes non-free-firmware; please be sure to update your apt sources.list if your systems requires such components for operation. If your previous sources.list included non-free for this purpose it may safely be removed. apt sources.list The Debian archive holds several components: Example of the sources.list file Example using the components: For more information and guidelines on proper configuration of the apt source.list file please see the Configuring Apt Sources - Wiki page. New Debian Members Please welcome the following newest Debian Project Members: To find out more about our newest members or any Debian Developer, look for them on the Debian People list. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis. Some recently released advisories concern these packages: Popular packages New and noteworthy packages in unstable Once upon a time in Debian: The Publicity team calls for volunteers and help! Your Publicity team is asking for help from you our readers, developers, and interested parties to contribute to the Debian news effort. We implore you to submit items that may be of interest to our community and also ask for your assistance with translations of the news into (your!) other languages along with the needed second or third set of eyes to assist in editing our work before publishing. If you can share a small amount of your time to aid our team which strives to keep all of us informed, we need you. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help and reach out to us via IRC on #debian-publicity on OFTC.net, or our public mailing list, or via email at press@debian.org for sensitive or private inquiries. Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list. To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Jean-Pierre Giraud, Joost van Baal-Ilić, Carlos Henrique Lima Melara, Donald Norwood and Paulo Henrique de Lima Santana.

#### Debian Project News - July 16th, 2022

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. We hope that you enjoy this edition of the DPN. After two online editions in 2020 and 2021, the annual Debian Conference returns to its usual format: DebConf22 is being held in Prizren, Kosovo from Sunday 17th to Sunday 24th July 2022. The full schedule includes 45-minute and 20-minute talks and team meetings ("BoF"), workshops, and a job fair, as well as a variety of other events. Video streaming will also be available from the DebConf22 website. You can also follow the live coverage of news about DebConf22 on https://micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in your favorite social network. Debian thanks the commitment of numerous sponsors to support DebConf22, particularly our Platinum Sponsors: Lenovo, Infomaniak, ITP Prizren and Google. The development of the next Debian release continues and the Debian Release Team has proposed a timeline for its freeze: January 2023 (2023-01-12): Milestone 1 - Transition and toolchain freeze
February 2023 (2023-02-12): Milestone 2 - Soft Freeze
March 2023 (2023-03-12): Milestone 3 - Hard Freeze - for key packages and packages without autopkgtests
To be announced: Milestone 4 - Full Freeze Other topics covered in this issue include: For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks too. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2022). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list to keep your systems updated against any vulnerabilities. On 1st November 2021, the Debian Security Advisory number #5000 was published. Thanks Security Team for the continuous effort and support all these years! Some recently released advisories concern these packages: mat2, xen, wpewebkit, webkit2gtk, request-tracker4, chromium, php7.4, intel-microcode, ldap-account-manager, blender, thunderbird, gnupg2. The Debian website also archives the security advisories issued by the Debian Long Term Support team and posted to the debian-lts-announce mailing list. Updated Debian 11 and Debian 10: 11.4 and 10.12 released Since the initial release on 14 August 2021, the Debian project issued four updates of its stable distribution Debian 11 (codename bullseye), the last one announced on 9 July 2022. The Debian project also announced the twelfth update of its oldstable distribution Debian 10 (codename Buster) on 23 March 2022 to point release 10.12. These point releases added corrections for security issues along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Upgrading an existing installation to either revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: https://www.debian.org/mirror/list The Debian Long Term Support (LTS) Team announced that Debian 9 stretch support has reached its end-of-life on July 1, 2022. A subset of packages will be supported from now on by external parties (detailed information can be found at Extended LTS). The LTS team will take over support for Debian 10 buster from the Security Team during August, while the final point update for buster will be released during that month. Debian 10 will also receive Long Term Support for five years after its initial release with support ending on June 30, 2024. The 18th of November of 2021, at 12:06:14 UTC, Debian hit the mark with bug # 1,000,000. Thank you to all of our Developers, Contributors, and users who helped us reach (and fix) this milestone. Several decisions have been taken with the Debian General Resolution process and other type of elections in the last months, and some other discussions or decisions are planned for the following months. Here you can find a quick summary of them: General Resolution: Change the resolution process  After a period of proposals and discussions initiated in 2021, the project has officially adopted several changes in the Debian Constitution in order to amend the resolution process on January 2022. These constitutional changes attempt to address several issues detected by separating the Technical Committee process from the General Resolution process since they have different needs, setting a maximum discussion period for resolution, extending the general resolution discussion period automatically if the ballot changes, modifying the GR process to treat all ballot options equally and other process improvements or clarifications. All the information about this vote is in the web page about this general resolution and the changes in the were applied producing the version 1.8 of the Debian Constitution. General Resolution: Voting secrecy After a period of proposals and discussions initiated, the project has officially adopted a change in the Debian Constitution in order to hide identities of Developers casting a particular vote and allow verification. All the information about this vote is in the web page about this general resolution. Debian Project Leader election 2022: Jonathan Carter reelected Jonathan Carter has been has been re-elected for a new term. He sent a Bits from the DPL message in April and a new update about the project leader tasks is scheduled for the first day of DebConf22. Open discussion about Firmware Steve McIntyre initiated a discussion within the project in order to gather opinions and proposals about how to improve firmware support in Debian. The interchange of ideas and opinions still continues and there is a BoF session in DebConf22 dedicated to this topic. The progress in the process of arriving to a decision may involve a General Resolution proposal in the future, in order to get a clear mandate of the project on how to proceed. Debian continues participating in Outreachy and Google Summer of Code programs, and we're excited to announce that two interns will improve Yarn package manager integration with Debian for the Outreachy May 2022 - August 2022 round, and three interns will improve Android SDK Tools in Debian and Quality Assurance for Biological and Medical Applications inside Debian for the Google Summer of Code 2022 edition. During DebConf22's DebCamp a BootCamp has been prepared to welcome and help newcomers to get introduced to Debian and have some hands-on experience using our belove operating system and contributing to the project. If you'd like to help in the efforts to extend Debian and make it more diverse, don't hesitate to join the Debian Outreach team! You can follow the day-to-day of the new contributors and organization of the programs on the debian-outreach mailing-list and chat with us on our #debian-outreach IRC channel. You can also have a look or join other teams related to extending the community: the Debian Local Groups (focused on supporting Local Groups initiatives with infrastructure, goodies, sharing ideas etc), the Welcome team, focused in help newcomers find their way to start using Debian or contributing to the project, and of course Debian Mentors to support people starting to contribute to Debian in packaging or infrastructure areas. Upcoming events Next Tuesday 16th of August 2022 the Debian community will celebrate Debian's 29th birthday. Some events are already scheduled, have a look at the related wiki page to learn about them or add your Debian Day party to the list to let others know about your local DebianDay celebration. There will be a Debian presentation booth shared with Debian Edu at FrOSCon, August 20th/21st, 2022 in Sankt Augustin, Germany. From 14th to 16th October 2022, a Bug Squashing Party will be held in Karlsrhue, hosted (and generously sponsored by) Unicon GmbH in view of the first step of bookworm freeze scheduled for the beginning of 2023. To ease the organisation of the event, you're kindly asked to register on the wiki page if interested. Past events The MiniDebConf 2021 Regensburg, Germany, took place on October 2nd-3rd 2021. With over 55 people attending and more than 20 talks and lightning talks, this event was a real success. The video recordings are available. Debian had a virtual stand at FOSDEM 2022 held online on February 5th–6th 2022. The Debian Clojure Team held a two days remote sprint, on May 13th-14th 2022, involving five of its members to improve various aspects of the Clojure ecosystem in Debian. The eagerly awaited Debian Reunion Hamburg 2022 was held from monday 23th May to 30th May 2022 starting by five days of hacking followed by two days of talks. People - more than sixty attendees - were happy to meet in person, to hack and chat together, and much more. For those who missed the live streams, the video recordings are available. During the Debian Reunion, three members of the Debian Perl Group met in an (Unofficial) Debian Perl Sprint to continue perl development work for Bookworm and to work on QA tasks across their 3800+ packages. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the buster cycle. Packages needing help: Currently 1261 packages are orphaned and 180 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 199 bugs available tagged newcomer. New Package Maintainers since 18 March 2021 New Debian Maintainers New Debian Developers Contributors 1064 people and 10 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2022. This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed in 2022, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are provided unformatted in descending order by date (recent news at the top). Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list. To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Laura Arjona Reina and Jean-Pierre Giraud.

#### Debian Project News - March 18th, 2021

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. The call for nominations has been announced for the election of the Debian Project Leader. The election process starts six weeks prior to a post vacancy, with the term starting on 2021-04-21. The process proceeds as follows: Nominations are accepted March 7 through March 13, Campaigns run Sunday March 14 through April 3, and Voting begins April 4 through April 17. The Release Team announced that bullseye reached the soft freeze milestone on 2021-02-12. This freeze allows only small targeted fixes for the next release. New transitions or versions of packages that may be disruptive are no longer allowed. You can follow the freeze schedule on the Bullseye Freeze Timeline and Policy page. Other topics covered in this issue include: Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2021). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list to keep your systems updated against any vulnerabilities. Some recently released advisories concern these packages: pygments, tiff, flatpack, grub2, thunderbird, docker.io, firefox, screen, chromium, webkit2gtk, openvswitch, firejail, and connman. The Debian website also archives the security advisories issued by the Debian Long Term Support team and posted to the debian-lts-announce mailing list. Since the BootHole group of bugs announced in GRUB2 in July 2020, security researchers and developers in Debian and elsewhere have continued to look for further issues that might allow for circumvention of UEFI Secure Boot. Several more have been found. See Debian Security Advisory 4867-1 for more complete details. Debian published a very informative statement aiming to explain the consequences of these security vulnerabilities, and what steps have been taken to address them. Homeworld, the default artwork and theme for bullseye We send congratulations to Juliette Taka for her winning submission of Homeworld, which will be the default theme and artwork for Debian 11 bullseye. Over 5,613 votes were cast between 18 submissions. We thank all who contributed and voted in the process which was a delightful refresher showing how much of a community Debian truly is. Release Critical Bug report for Week 11 The bug webinterface of the Ultimate Debian Database currently knows about the following release critical bugs: Of these 165 bugs, the following tags are set: Ignoring all the above (multiple tags possible) 111 bugs need to be fixed by Debian Contributors to get Debian 11.0 bullseye released. However, in the view of the Release Managers, 182 need to be dealt with for the release to happen. Please see Interpreting the release critical bug statistics for an explanation of the different numbers. We are very proud of our WWW team and their work in updating the Debian website into a modern streamlined look. Take a peek! This is just the beginning of the process as we continue to remove outdated information, update the site with new information, and improve the overall end user experience. As always more hands and eyes are helpful, let us know if you would care to contribute to this new chapter in our development. Julian Andres Klode shared that APT 2.2 has been released. New features include --error-on=any and rred as a standalone to merge pdiff files. The new archive signing keys for Debian 11 have been generated for future use (shortly). The keys will be included in Debian 11, bullseye and for future point releases for Debian 10, buster. The keys will go into use at the release of bullseye or the expiry of the old keys on 2027-04-12. Keys: https://ftp-master.debian.org/keys/archive-key-11.asc https://ftp-master.debian.org/keys/archive-key-11-security.asc DQIB (Debian Quick Image Baker) provides weekly-generated Debian QEMU sid images for many architectures. Each download provides a root filesystem, kernel, initrd, and a README sample QEMU command that will launch the image with information about how to log in. Sylvestre Ledru shared details of the working of rust-coreutils in Debian. The implementation is able to support and boot with GNOME, install the top 1,000 packages, and build Firefox. Sergio Durigan Junior announced a debuginfod service in Debian. debuginfod allows developers to forego the need to install debuginfo packages to debug software. It works as a client/server to provide debugger tools over HTTP. Debian Developer Olek Wojnar and Google Software Engineer Yun Peng worked with the Bazel team to package Bazel in Debian toward assisting the medical community with COVID-19 research. Olek shares some of the technical challenges and details of the project in a video talk. Raphael Hertzog shared details of Freexian's LTS intention to provide funding for some Debian projects with a portion of the money collected from its own sponsors. This generous contribution will allow teams to propose requests for funding within their spheres which overall will give back to the entire community. Bug Squashing Parties Upcoming events There will be a Virtual Bug Squashing Party in Salzburg/Austria held April 24–25 2021. Some details are still in the planning stage, for now, please save the date. Past events The Debian Brazil community held MiniDebConf Online Brasil 2020, November 28–29, 2020. Talks from the event in Portuguese available for viewing. The Debian India community held MiniDebConf Online India 2021, January 23–24, 2021. Talks were available in over 6 languages, with around 45 total events from talks, to BOFs and Workshops. Talks and Video from the event are available for viewing. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the buster cycle. Packages needing help: Currently 1204 packages are orphaned and 209 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 189 bugs available tagged newcomer. New Package Maintainers since 9 september 2020 Please welcome: Adrien Nayrat, Georgy Komarov, Alex Doyle, Johann Queuniet, Stephen Gildea, Christoph Groth, Jhon Alejandro Marin Rodriguez, Adrià García-Alzórriz, Romain Porte, Jakub Ružička, skyper, James Turton, Alois Schlögl, Judit Foglszinger, Aaron Boxer, Kevin Wu, Anthony Perkins, Felix Delattre, Ken Ibbotson, Andrei Rozanski, Nis Martensen , qinxialei, Laurin Hagemann, Jai Flack, Johann Elsass, Fred Le Meur, Vivek K J, Thiago da Silva Gracini, Jobin J, Selvamani Kannan, Calum McConnell, Dhyey Patel, Ed Neville, Leonidas S. Barbosa, Lucca Braga Godoy Mendonça, Chris Keller, Guinness, Sergio de Almeida Cipriano Junior, Sahil Dhiman, Michel Le Bihan, Fabio Fantoni, Mark Pearson, Matija Nalis, David Bannon, Federico Grau, Lisa Julia Nebel, Patrick Jaap, Francisco Emanoel Ferreira, Peymaneh Nejad, Daniel Milde, Stefan Kropp, Frédéric Pierret, Vipul Kumar, Jarrah Gosbell, John Zaitseff, Badreddin Aboubakr, Sam Reed, Scupake, Clay Stan, Klaumi Klingsporn, Vincent Smeets, Emerson dos Santos Queiroz, Alexander Sulfrian, bill-auger, Marcelo Henrique Cerri, Dan Streetman, Hu Feng, Andrea Righi, Matthias Klein, Eric Brown, Mayco Souza Berghetti, Robbi Nespu, Simon Tatham, and Brian Potkin. New Debian Maintainers Please welcome: Ricardo Ribalda Delgado, Pierre Gruet, Henry-Nicolas Tourneur, Aloïs Micard, Jérôme Lebleu, Nis Martensen, Stephan Lachnit, Felix Salfelder, Aleksey Kravchenko, Étienne Mollier, Timo Röhling, Fabio Augusto De Muzio Tobich, Arun Kumar Pariyar, Francis Murtagh, William Desportes, Robin Gustafsson, Nicholas Guriev, Xiang Gao, Maarten L. Hekkelman, qinxialei, Boian Bonev, Filip Hroch, and Antonio Valentino. New Debian Developers Please welcome: Benda XU, Joseph Nahmias, Marcos Fouces, Hayashi Kentaro, James Valleroy, Helge Deller, Nicholas D Steeves, Nilesh Patra, David Suárez Rodríguez, and Pierre Gruet. Contributors 954 people and 9 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2021. Statistics buster sid Popular packages New and noteworthy packages Here is a small sample of the many packages added to the unstable Debian archive in the past few weeks: Debian Developer Stephan Lachnit asked: Is it possible to contribute to Debian without using one's real name out of privacy concerns? William Torrez Corea asked: How to upgrade the O/S to Debian buster? The thread discussion regards reinstalling vs. upgrading vs. rebuilding, and a synopsis of Sid/Stable/Testing. Jerry Mellon asked: How to add a hard drive to an existing system? Easy read which shows some pitfalls and workarounds to this very common task. Dan Hitt asked: How to install Debian 10 without CD or USB access but with ethernet and Hard Disk usage? This discussion covers a very fast bios, pxeboot options, grub menuentry entries, netboot, and a hd-media kernel solution. John Berden asked: How to fix an incorrect password in Debian 10.8 after installation?. This thread touches on grub editing at startup, grub persistence, a miniature emacs and grub editor syntax lesson, and canonical shell behaviour. Tips and Tricks Once upon a time in Debian: Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Jean-Pierre Giraud, Justin B Rye, Thiago Pezzo, Paulo Santana and Donald Norwood.

#### Debian Project News - September 9th, 2020

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you enjoy this Special Archival Edition of the Debian Project News which repeats, introduces, and attempts to catch you up on most of the year's news for 2020 so far. For this special edition of the news, we have omitted a few regular sections in our effort to bring our coverage up to date. Should you wish to find older or missing information, please review our Bits from Debian Blog or our Debian Micronews Service where all recent and current news items have already been shared through this calendar year. From time to time we get questions about current events, the rules about who may own websites in the Debian namespace, the progress of development within the community, or inquiries as to the official channels of communication for and from Debian. The News section of the Debian website carries formal information and announcements many of which are mirrored/shared from the debian-news and debian-announce mailing lists. Our Bits from Debian Blog carries news from multiple Debian mailing-lists along with semi-formal information and announcements on a much faster news release cycle. Our Micronews Service carries and covers short, immediate impact, or breaking and current news event items. The Micronews service also feeds to multiple social media feeds, such as twitter, identi.ca, and framapiaf.org. Of course, we cannot forget the medium you are reading: the Debian Project News is the project newsletter, which comes out somewhat randomly (help needed - see below). Please note that all of the listed channels for communication are available via the https:// protocol which you will see in use throughout our website and all official channels. Should you need to reach out to us for questions around an announcement or news item, please do not hesitate to contact us via email at press@debian.org. We would ask you to please note that the press and publicity teams which provide these information-only services are not able to provide direct user support; such inquiries should be forwarded to the debian-user mailing lists or toward the appropriate Debian Team. Your Publicity team is asking for help from you our readers, developers, and interested parties to contribute to the Debian news effort. We implore you to submit items that may be of interest to our community and also ask for your assistance with translations of the news into (your!) other languages along with the needed second or third set of eyes to assist in editing our work before publishing. If you can share a small amount of your time to aid our team which strives to keep all of us informed, we need you. Please reach out to us via IRC on #debian-publicity on OFTC.net, or our public mailing list, or via email at press@debian.org for sensitive or private inquiries. Jonathan Carter (highvoltage), the newly elected DPL, shares his thoughts, thanks, and outlines for the future of Debian in his first official blog post as DPL. New DPL blog posts are also posted on the official Debian blog. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2020). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. The Debian website now also archives the security advisories issued by the Debian Long Term Support team and posted to the debian-lts-announce mailing list. News for Debian 10 buster: 10.5 released In July 2019, we welcomed the release of Debian 10 (codename buster). Since then, the Debian project announced the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth point release updates of its stable distribution. Debian 10.5 was published on 1 August 2020. Updated Debian 9: 9.13 released The Debian project announced the tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth point (and final) release updates of its old stable distribution Debian 9 (codename stretch). Debian 9.13 was published on 18 July 2020. Security support for the oldstable Debian 9 release has been discontinued as of 6 July 2020. However, stretch benefits from Long Term Support (LTS) until the end of June 2022. The LTS is limited to i386, amd64, armel, armhf and arm64. Debian 8 LTS reaching end-of-life On 30 June 2020, Debian LTS support for Debian 8 Jessie reached its end-of-life five years after its initial release on 26 April 2015. News on Debian 11 bullseye Paul Gevers from the Release Team shared the upcoming policy for our next release, the tentative freeze dates, along with other updates and changes. For additional information regarding how these changes and policies came to be, please refer to an earlier Bits from the Release Team. Aurelien Jarno proposed the removal of the mips architecture for the next release, because the porting effort has become increasingly difficult. This removal does not affect stretch or buster. In view of Python 2's removal for the bullseye release, the debian-python team provides news about the progress and next steps of the process. More details are available on the dedicated wiki page. The Debian Installer Bullseye Alpha 1 release was published on 5 December 2019. Cyril Brulebois shared news on the Debian Installer Bullseye Alpha 2 release, published on 16 March 2020, which features many improvements and changes to clock-setup, grub-installer, preseed, and systemd among other enhancements. Tests and reports to find bugs and further improve the installer are welcome. Installer images and everything else are available for download. A new localization package for the manpages Historically, man pages for a given package have often had translations provided in various other packages using different methods, teams, and formats. Currently, most of them are no longer maintained. Most of the critical manpages were previously translated to keep the man pages up-to-date. Debian will release a new manpages-l10n. package which will replace Perkamon, manpages-de, manpages-fr, manpages-fr-extra, manpages-pl, manpages-pl-dev, manpages-pt, and manpages-pt-dev. Additionally, this new package brings manpage translations for the Dutch and Romanian languages. The result will be that French, German, Dutch, Polish, Romanian, and Portuguese speakers will now have possibly translated manpages contained in a single package. From those translations speakers can help with or report bugs against pages. We welcome others to join this effort, but please keep in mind areas where packages are no longer maintained, those packages have a higher priority to convert into PO files and update. DKIM Keys Adam D. Barratt shared information on a recent enhancement to the Debian infrastructure with an enhancement for DDs to utilize DKIM keys for mail authentication. Salsa Authentication Changes Enrico Zini announced Salsa logins are enabled on nm.debian.org. This change improves ease of use for Applicants, Maintainers, and new Developers. Following this change, Bastian Blank from the Salsa administrators team announced a Salsa update: removal of -guest accounts towards using Salsa as an authentication provider. Sean Whitton released Debian Policy 4.5.0.2 with updates to generated usernames, service unit script use, and update-rc.d updates. Bits from the Technical Committee The Technical Committee while preparing their DebConf20 talk intitled Meet the Technical Committee published their annual report and a proposal document to enhance the TC's work and processes. New Debian Academy Team A new initiative to define and run an official Debian e-learning platform with Debian specific courses. Do you want to help make it happen? Visit the wiki page and join the team. Debian France has renewed its board Debian France is a non-profit organisation forming part of the Trusted Organisations. They are the main trusted organisation in Europe. They have just renewed their board. There were few changes, except the president who is now Jean-Philippe MENGUAL. Keep in mind that this non-profit organisation has on its board only Debian developers, as President, Secretary and Treasurer. The other administrators are not all Debian Developers but contribute to Debian on booths or other events. See the news. MiniDebConfs and MiniDebCamps At the start of 2020, there were seven MiniDebConfs scheduled all around the world, reflecting the vitality of our community. Organized by Debian project members, MiniDebConfs are open to everyone and provide an opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to meet in person. But due to the constraints related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, most if not all of these conferences have been cancelled or postponed to 2021: Maceió (Brazil), Aberdeen (Scotland), Bordeaux (France), El Salvador, and Regensburg (Germany). Some have been rescheduled online: the first one, MiniDeconfOnline #1, preceded by a DebCamp, was held from 28 to 31 May 2020. The MiniDebConf Online #2 "Gaming Edition", devoted to gaming on Debian (and Linux in general) will take place from 19 to 22 November 2020 - the first two days being a Debcamp. Visit the wiki page of the event for details. DebConf20 held Online, DebConf21 to be held in Haifa, Israel DebConf20 has been held online for the first time, due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) disease pandemic. The Debian community has adapted to this change with the continuing of idea sharing, Birds of a Feather (BoF) sessions and discussions and all of the things we have developed as traditions over the years. All of the sessions were streamed, with a variety of ways of participating: via IRC messaging, online collaborative text documents, and video conferencing meeting rooms. With more than 850 attendees from 80 different countries and a total of over 100 event talks, discussion sessions, Birds of a Feather (BoF) gatherings and other activities, DebConf20 was a large success. The DebConf20 schedule included two tracks in languages other than English: the Spanish language MiniConf and the Malayalam language MiniConf. Most of the talks and sessions are available through the Debian meetings archive website and the DebConf20 website will remain active for archival purposes and will continue to offer links to the presentations and videos of talks and events. Next year, DebConf21 is planned to be held in Haifa, Israel, in August or September. 27 years strong! Happy Anniversary! Happy #DebianDay! Due to the worldwide Covid-19 pandemic, fewer local events were organised for DebianDay and some of them held online in Brazil (15 to 16 August). Nevertheless, developers and contributors had the opportunity to meet in La Paz (Bolivia), České Budějovice (Czech Republic), and Haifa (Israel) during DebConf20. The Debian Brasil community organized from May 3rd to Jun 6th, 2020, an online event called #FiqueEmCasaUseDebian (#StayHomeUseDebian). During 27 nights, the DDs Daniel Lenharo and Paulo Santana (phls) hosted guests who shared their knowledge about Debian. You can read a report. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the buster cycle. Teams needing help Debian Developers Reference is now maintained as ReStructuredText. Translations and translation updates are welcome - please see the announcement in the Misc. Developer News and the developers-reference translations thread for more information. Call for bullseye artwork proposals Jonathan Carter made the official call for proposals for bullseye artwork. For the most up-to-date details, please refer to the wiki. At the same time, we would like to thank Alex Makas for doing the futurePrototype theme for buster. If you would like, or know of someone who would like, to create a desktop look and feel, be sure to send in your artwork. Submission deadline is 10 October 2020. Packages needing help: Currently 1191 packages are orphaned and 213 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 195 bugs available tagged newcomer. New Package Maintainers since 1 July 2019 Please welcome: Marie Alexandre, Saira Hussain, laokz, Arthur Diniz, Daniel Pimentel, Ricardo Fantin da Costa, Ivan Noleto, Joao Seckler, Andre Marcelo Alvarenga, Felipe Amorim, Pedro Vaz de Mello de Medeiros, Marco Villegas, Thiago Gomes Verissimo, Teemu Toivola, Giuliano Augusto Faulin Belinassi, Miguel Figueiredo, Stephan Lachnit, Nicola Di Lieto, Ximin Luo, Paul Grosu, Thomas Ward, Ganael Laplanche, Aaron M. Ucko, Rodrigo Carvalho, Lukas Puehringer, Markus Teich, Alexander Ponyatykh, Rob Savoury, Joaquin de Andres, Georges Basile Stavracas Neto, Jian-Ding Chen (timchen119), Juan Picca, Katerina, Matthew Fernandez, Shane McDonald, Eric Desrochers, Remi Duraffort, Sakirnth Nagarasa, Ambady Anand S., Abhijith Sheheer, Helen Koike, Sven Hartge, Priyanka Saggu, Sebastian Holtermann, Jamie Bliss, David Hart, James Tocknell, Julien Schueller, Matt Hsiao, Jafar Al-Gharaibeh, Matthias Blümel, Dustin Kirkland, Gao Xiang , Alberto Leiva Popper, Benjamin Hof, Antonio Russo, Jérôme Lebleu, Ramon Fried, Evangelos Rigas, Adam Cecile, Martin Habovstiak, Lucas Kanashiro, Alessandro Grassi, Estebanb, James Price, Cyril Richard, John Scott, David Bürgin, Beowulf, Igor Petruk, Thomas Dettbarn, Vifly, Lajos Veres, Andrzej Urbaniak, Phil Wyett, Christian Barcenas, Johannes Schilling, Josh Steadmon, Sven Hesse, Gert Wollny, suman rajan, kokoye2007, Kei Okada, Jonathan Tan, David Rodriguez, David Krauser, Norbert Schlia, Pranav Ballaney, Steve Meliza, Fabian Grünbichler, Sao I Kuan, Will Thompson, Abraham Raji, Andre Moreira Magalhaes, Lorenzo Puliti, Dmitry Baryshkov, Leon Marz, Ryan Pavlik, William Desportes, Michael Elterman, Simon, Schmeisser, Fabrice Bauzac, Pierre Gruet, Mattia Biondi, Taowa Munene-Tardif, Sepi Gair, Piper McCorkle, Alois Micard, xiao sheng wen, Roman Ondráček, Abhinav Krishna C K, Konstantin Demin, Pablo Mestre Drake, Harley Swick, Robin Gustafsson, Hamid Nassiby, Étienne Mollier, Karthik, Ben Fiedler, Jair Reis, Jordi Sayol, Emily Shaffer, Fabio dos Santos Mendes, Bruno Naibert de Campos, Junior Figueredo, Marcelo Vinicius Campos Amedi, Tiago Henrique Vercosa de Lima, Deivite Huender Ribeiro Cardoso, Guilherme de Paula Xavier Segundo, Celio Roberto Pereira, Tiago Rocha, Leandro Ramos, Filipi Souza, Leonardo Santiago Sidon da Rocha, Asael da Silva Vaz, Regis Fernandes Gontijo, Carlos Henrique Lima Melara, Alex Rosch de Faria, Luis Paulo Linares, Jose Nicodemos Vitoriano de Oliveira, Marcio Demetrio Bacci, Fabio Augusto De Muzio Tobich, Natan Mourao, Wilkens Lenon, Paulo Farias, Leonardo Rodrigues Pereira, Elimar Henrique da Silva, Delci Silva Junior, Paulo Henrique Hebling Correa, Gleisson Jesuino Joaquim Cardoso, Joao Paulo Lima de Oliveira, Jesus Ali Rios, Jaitony de Sousa, Leonardo Santos, Aristo Chen, Olivier Humbert, Roberto De Oliveira, Martyn Welch, Arun Kumar Pariyar, Vasyl Gello, Antoine Latter, Ken VanDine, Francisco M Neto, Dhavan Vaidya, Raphael Medaer, Evangelos Ribeiro Tzaras, Richard Hansen, Joachim Langenbach, Jason Hedden, Boian Bonev, Kay Thriemer, Sławomir Wójcik, Lukas Märdian, Kevin Duan, zhao feng, Leandro Cunha, Cocoa, J0J0 T, Johannes Tiefenbacher, Iain Parris, Guobang Bi, Lasse Flygenring-Harrsen, Emanuel Krivoy, Qianqian Fang, Rafael Onetta Araujo, Shruti Sridhar, Alvin Chen, Brian Murray, Nick Gasson. New Debian Maintainers Please welcome: Hans van Kranenburg, Scarlett Moore, Nikos Tsipinakis, Joan Lledó, Baptiste Beauplat, Jianfeng Li, Denis Danilov, Joachim Falk, Thomas Perret, William Grzybowski, Lars Tangvald, Alberto Molina Coballes, Emmanuel Arias, Hsieh-Tseng Shen, Jamie Strandboge, Sven Geuer, Håvard Flaget Aasen, Marco Trevisan, Dennis Braun, Stephane Neveu, Seunghun Han, Alexander Johan Georg Kjäll, Friedrich Beckmann, Diego M. Rodriguez, Nilesh Patra, Hiroshi Yokota, Shayan Doust, Chirayu Desai, Arnaud Ferraris, Francisco Vilmar Cardoso Ruviaro, Patrick Franz, François Mazen, Kartik Kulkarni, Fritz Reichwald, Nick Black, Octavio Alvarez. New Debian Developers Please welcome: Keng-Yu Lin, Judit Foglszinger, Teus Benschop, Nick Morrott, Ondřej Kobližek, Clément Hermann, Gordon Ball, Louis-Philippe Véronneau, Olek Wojnar, Sven Eckelmann, Utkarsh Gupta, Robert Haist, Gard Spreemann, Jonathan Bustillos, Scott Talbert, Paride Legovini, Ana Custura, Felix Lechner, Richard Laager, Thiago Andrade Marques, Vincent Prat, Michael Robin Crusoe, Jordan Justen, Anuradha Weeraman, Bernelle Verster, Gabriel F. T. Gomes, Kurt Kremitzki, Nicolas Mora, Birger Schacht and Sudip Mukherjee. Contributors 1375 people and 9 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2020. New and noteworthy packages A sample of the many packages added to the unstable Debian archive in the past few weeks: Once upon a time in Debian: Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Laura Arjona Reina, Jean-Pierre Giraud, Paulo Henrique de Lima Santana, Jean-Philippe Mengual and Donald Norwood.

#### Debian Project News - July 1st, 2019

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you enjoy this edition of DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2019). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. The Debian website now also archives the security advisories issued by the Debian Long Term Support team and posted to the debian-lts-announce mailing list. Updated Debian 9: 9.9 released The Debian project announced the seventh, eighth, and ninth point release updates of its stable distribution Debian 9 (codename Stretch). Debian 9.9 was published on 27 April 2019. News on Debian Buster Debian Buster started its freeze in January and entered its full freeze on 12 March 2019. The theme futurePrototype by Alex Makas has been selected as the default theme for Debian 10 Buster among a total of eleven submissions. The Debian Release team announced the release of Buster planned for 2019-07-06 and provided a summary about the last weeks up to the release. Time to join or announce a Release Party! The Debian-Installer Buster RC 2 release was published. Tests and reports to find bugs and further improve the installer are welcome. Installer images and everything else are available for download. New DPL In April, Sam Hartman was elected as the new Debian Project Leader. Sam has already posted several monthly updates on his work as DPL, for April and May. Sam also guided a discussion and consensus call on whether Debian wants to increase the strength of its recommendation of the dh sequencer from debhelper. Details and conclusions about this can be read in his mail "Requiring Debhelper's dh in Some Circumstances". MiniDebConf Marseille 2019 A miniDebConf took place in Marseille (France) from 25 to 26 May, with two days of talks, a keysigning party, and more. Thanks to the wonderful video team, all talks are available online. On Friday May 24th, the Debian French translation team held a sprint. MiniDebConf Hamburg 2019 After a three-day MiniDebCamp, a miniDebConf took place in Hamburg (Germany) from 8 to 9 June. In case you missed it, the mighty video team has you covered and published all the recorded talks. The MiniDebCamp hosted sprints for the DebConf19 team, the Reproducible Builds team, the Debian Perl group, Debian Edu and the Salsa CI team. Upcoming events MiniDebConfs Following the two events already mentioned, there is one additional MiniDebConf scheduled in the coming months, reflecting the vitality of our community. Organized by Debian project members, MiniDebConfs are open to everyone and provide an opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to meet in person. MiniDebConf Vaumarcus 2019 From 25 to 27 October, a miniDebConf will take place in Vaumarcus' LeCamp, (Switzerland), the Debconf13' venue. Visit the wiki page of the event where you can get all the details, or follow the organisation of the event on the debian-switzerland@lists.debian.org mailing list, if you want to help. A glimpse at Curitiba DebConf19's program Preparations are almost completed for DebConf19 which will be held in Curitiba (Brazil) from July 21st to 28th 2019. It will be preceded by a six days Debcamp from July 14th to 19th. About 50 talks, more than 15 short talks, about 30 BOFs ("Birds of a Feather" discussions), and a Workshop has been approved and scheduled. As usual, a lot of sponsors have decided to bring their support to the Debian conference. With their help, and the quality of the DebConf Team's investment, all the conditions are gathered to make this event a success. Welcome to Curitiba, every thing is ready, including the official DebConf Cheese and Wine party! Event reports Abhijith PA shared his report about DebUstav-Dehli organized on 9th and 10th March 2019. This conference gathered Debian or FOSS-related talks and workshop, including a Bug Squashing Party. The Debian Web team held a sprint in Madrid (Spain) from March 15th to March 17th, 2019. They discussed the status of the Debian website in general, reviewed several important pages and sections and agreed on how to improve them. They have reported their progress and started to reorganise the homepage and the download section. Gregory Colpart shared his report about the organization of MiniDebConf Marseille. Laura Arjona Reina shared her report of her attendance at the MiniDebConf Marseille. The Debian French translation team recently published the report (in French) of their sprint during MiniDebConf Marseille. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Buster cycle. Packages needing help: Currently 1437 packages are orphaned and 159 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 224 bugs available tagged newcomer. Thomas Goirand details the OpenStack-cluster-installer in Buster. The OCI (OpenStack Cluster Installer) package sets up and provisions an OpenStack cluster using a Debian live system image. The OCI process installs and configures services and components as needed per server roles in the cluster. Benjamin Mako Hill shared Research on How Anonymity is Perceived in Open Collaboration. The paper written by Benjamin, Nora McDonald, Rachel Greenstadt, and Andrea Forte studies how open collaboration projects can balance the threats of bad behavior with the goal of respecting contributors’ expectations of privacy. Lucas Nussbaum introduced his work on setting up a framework to graph Debian historical package trends. Lucas delved further into the data with an analysis of package smells (characteristics in source code which indicate deeper issues or weaknesses in design). Birger Schacht shared the steps used to Install Debian with Encrypted Boot using GRML. New Package Maintainers New Debian Maintainers New Debian Developers Contributors 1322 people and 9 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2019. Statistics Buster Sid Release Critical Bug Report for Week 26/2019 The bug webinterface of the Ultimate Debian Database currently knows about the following release critical bugs: Of these 58 bugs, the following tags are set: Ignoring all the above (multiple tags possible) 35 bugs need to be fixed by Debian Contributors to get Debian 10.0 Buster released. However, with the view of the Release Managers, 50 need to be dealt with for the release to happen. Please see Interpreting the release critical bug statistics for an explanation of the different numbers. Once upon a time in Debian: Distribution roundtable discussion with the @Debian, @elementary and @Fedora Project Leaders Bryan Lunduke of Linux Journal published in a paper intitled The State of Desktop Linux 2019, a roundtable discussion with the @Debian, @elementary and @Fedora Project Leaders after a short comparison of data from about ten Linux distributions. They discuss about their distribution, the model of their project and how they see the future for their distribution and, more generally, for the FOSS. This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are provided unformatted in descending order by date (recent news at the top). June May April March February January December Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Laura Arjona Reina, Jean-Pierre Giraud, Donald Norwood and Thomas Vincent.

#### Debian Project News - December 11th, 2018

Welcome to this year's fourth issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you enjoy this edition of the DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks too. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2018). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. Updated Debian 9: 9.6 released The Debian project announced the sixth update of its stable distribution Debian 9 (codename Stretch) on 10 November 2018 to point release 9.6. This point release added corrections for security issues along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Upgrading an existing installation to either revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: https://www.debian.org/mirror/list Package Salvaging Tobias Frost announced a new addition to the Debian Developer's Reference on Package Salvaging. Package Salvaging allows packages not officially orphaned or abandoned to be maintained by other developers or new contributors after some eligibility factors are addressed. The process differs from MIA handling of packages in that it does allow for negelected or forgotten packages to be brought back into the fold. There is a set of guidelines available which outline the phases of the process, along with additional information and FAQs on the Debian Wiki. Reproducible Builds joins the Software Conservancy! Reproducible Builds has joined the Software Freedom Conservancy, a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organisation that helps promote, develop and defend Free, Libre, and Open Source Software (FLOSS) projects. Through the SFC, member projects may receive donations earmarked for the benefit of a specific FLOSS project. The Reproducible Builds project, which began as a project within the Debian community, is also critical to the Conservancy’s own compliance work: A build that cannot be verified may contain code that triggers different license compliance responsibilities than the recipient is expecting. As Reproducible Builds joins Conservancy, it is also receiving a donation of US$300,000 from the Handshake Foundation which will propel the project’s efforts to ensure the future health and usability of free software. Rust available on 14 Debian Architectures John Paul Adrian Glaubitz announced and thanked the many contributors who helped to get Rust available on 14 Debian architectures. The newest supported architectures are: mips, mips64el, mipsel, and powerpcspe. This work is the result of the combined effort of many talented people, and work on LLVM upstream which fixed many many bugs in the MIPSand PowerPC backends as well as adding support for the PowerPCSPE sub-target. Documenting copyright holders in debian/copyright The FTP team has issued clarifications in regard to copyright attribution in debian/copyright; some of the main points: The FTP team affirms that documenting copyright holders in debian/copyright is a good idea. CTTE decision on vendor-specific patch series The technical committee passed a resolution on whether to allow the use of vendor-specific patch series in the Debian archive, in summary: The Committee recognises a need for packages to behave differently when built on different distributions, but this should be done by using differing source packages, or as part of the build process using current and future practices such as patches with conditional behaviour or patching of files during the build rather than at source unpacking time. As this feature is used by several packages today, there is the need for a reasonable transition period. However, they will be considered buggy from when this resolution is accepted, but will not be considered severe enough to warrant immediate removal from Debian. After Buster is released, the presence of a vendor-specific patch series will be a violation of a MUST directive in Debian policy. The Committee therefore resolves: Any use of dpkg's vendor-specific patch series feature is a bug for packages in the Debian archive (including contrib and non-free). After Buster is released, use of the vendor-specific patch series feature is forbidden in the Debian archive. For additional information and the original discussion please see Bug #904302. Release Team: Upcoming freeze timeline, ways to help The Release Team is preparing for the initial phase of the buster freeze. Developers are reminded to follow up on their plans and evaluate realistic timelines to accomplish for changes and inclusion into buster. Changes can be staged in experimental, to avoid disruption. Keep in mind that other volunteers may not have the same capacity to work on your goals. Any unfixed bugs are suggested to be fixed via NMU now rather than later. The official freeze time table for buster is: Please consult the buster freeze policy and timeline for detailed information about the different types of freezes and what they mean for you. If you would like to help us to get buster out on time and are able to help fix RC bugs in testing prior to the transition freeze, you can do that now by looking at the list of RC bugs or joining the #debian-bugs irc channel on irc.oftc.net. Bits from the Debian Anti-Harassment Team The Debian Anti-Harassment Team is the point of contact for any community member who would like to help create a more welcoming and respectful environment in Debian, and is also the point of contact for reports or concerns about inappropriate behaviour or abuse. The team will send out small but regular reports to the community. Should you see interactions that you consider deserve attention, please let us know. Please do not wait until a problem becomes too big; we can assist as friendly de-escalators or as mediators. Members may also forward information for which no action is to be taken, but kept on file should a problem escalate some time in the future. The team may be contacted at antiharassment@debian.org. Some highlights of our recent activity: One request for intervention on a dispute about a package deemed offensive, we issued our recommendation: Bug #907199 We had a request about removing messages from mailing list and responded. Several attendees at DebConf 18 served as a local anti-harassment team that handled disputes between attendees and a possible Code of Conduct violation, mediating in minor issues, and offering advice during the conference. A general reminder about the CoC was sent via micronews several times during DebConf18. We have been involved in the discussions about the photo policy for DebConf, and we plan to make a proposal soon. New Outreachy intern Debian welcomes Anastasia Tsikoza as our newest Outreachy intern. The Outreachy program provides internships for people from groups traditionally underrepresented in technology. Anastasia mentored by Paul Wise and Raju Devidas, will work on Improving the integration of Debian derivatives with the Debian infrastructure and the community. Misc Developer News Paul Wise posted the most recent issue of Misc Developer News #46, highlights include: debhelper compat level 12 is open for beta testing and is expected to become stable in Debian buster. A new port for RISC-V flavour riscv64 (64-bits little-endian) is now available in Debian Ports. With the recent release of debcargo 2.0.0 to crates.io, Debian packages can be created from your favorite Rust crate and uploaded to the Debian archive. devscripts 2.18.5 has been released and brings some new uscan features such as verifying signed tags in git and auto value for dversionmangle. Chris Lamb called for more volunteers for the FTP Team. Upcoming events MiniDebConf Marseille 2019 A miniDebConf will take place in Marseille (France) from 25 to 26 May, with two days of talks, lightning talks, keysigning party, lunch, and ... beer event Read the announcement and visit the wiki page of the event where you can get all the details, register for the event, and help in the organisation. Buster (bug) Squashing Parties! There are many Bug Squashing Parties coming up on our calendars that are focusing efforts on addressing and fixing release critical bugs that will delay the release of Debian 10 (buster). BSPs are open to everyone who wants and is able to get involved. Come on by and help us to make this release a success! Netherlands, Venlo, 12 January to 13 January 2019 Hosted at Transceptor Technology and insign.it. Feel welcome if you want to contribute to Debian, whatever your experience level. You don't need to be an existing Debian contributor. Just trying to reproduce a bug and documenting your experience is already useful. Announcement for Venlo BSP BSP Wiki for Venlo Canada, Montreal, 19 January to 20 January 2019 Hosted at Eastern Bloc, Montreal, Canada. Unlike the one we organised for the Stretch release, this BSP will be over a whole weekend, so hopefully folks from other provinces in Canada and from the USA can come. You can register on the wiki page where you will find information regarding transport, accommodation, food and other useful things. Expenses to attend this BSP should be sponsored by the Debian Project Announcement for Montreal BSP BSP Wiki for Montreal Germany, Bonn, 22 to 24 February 2019 Tarent solutions GmbH, Rochussstr. 2, 53123 Bonn, Germany The BSP is scheduled right between the soft freeze and the full freeze, thus giving a perfect opportunity for a really efficient and concentrated RC bug squashing sprint. The venue offers enough room for up to 20 people, separate rooms for those who want to hack in a smaller team, and also room for socialising. Announcement for Bonn BSP BSP Wiki for Bonn Austria, Salzburg 05 April to 07 April 2019 The offices of Conova Communications GmbH [CONOVA], located close to Salzburg Airport W.A. Mozart. We are happy to invite you to the 6th Debian Bug Squashing Party in Salzburg, Austria. A short registration on the wiki page [BSPSBG] is required to ease the organisation of the event. On the same page you will find information regarding transport, (sponsored) accommodation and other useful things. Announcement for Salzburg BSP BSP Wiki for Salzburg LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Buster cycle. Packages needing help Currently 1311 packages are orphaned and 157 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 212 bugs available tagged newcomer. Carl Chenet opined, You Think the Visual Studio Code binary you use is a Free Software? Think again. He points out some of the licensing practices used in regard to the MIT license, a permissive Free Software license. Elana Hashman shares information on her PyGotham 2018 Talk Resources for a talk called "The Black Magic of Python Wheels", based on 2 years of work on auditwheel and the manylinux platform. Benjamin Mako Hill talks about What we lose when we move from social to market exchange, on the topic of exchanging money in return for something vs. the exchange of hospitality. Molly de Blanc shared how she came to run a Conservancy Match donation program for the benefit of Software Freedom Conservancy. New Package Maintainers since 19 August Please welcome: Pedro Loami Barbosa dos Santos, Alexandros Afentoulis, David Kunz, Helen Koike, Andreas Schwarz, Miriam Retka, GreaterFire, Birger Schacht, Simon Spöhel, Guillaume Pernot, Joachim Nilsson, Mujeeb Rahman K, Timo Röhling, Hashem Nasarat, Christophe Courtois, Matheus Faria, Oliver Dechant, Johan Fleury, Gabriel Filion, Baptiste Beauplat, Bastian Germann, Markus Wurzenberger, Jeremy Finzel, Mangesh Divate, Jonas Schäfer, Julian Rüth, Scarlett Moore, Tiago Stürmer Daitx, Tommi Höynälänmaa, Romuald Brunet, Gerardo Ballabio, Stewart Ferguson, Julian Schauder, Chen-Ying Kuo, Denis Danilov, David Lamparter, and Kienan Stewart. New Debian Maintainers Please welcome: Sagar Ippalpalli, Kurt Kremitzki, Michal Arbet, Peter Wienemann, Alexis Bienvenüe, and Gard Spreemann. New Debian Developers Please welcome: Joseph Herlant, Aurélien Couderc, Dylan Aïssi, Kunal Mehta, Ming-ting Yao Wei, Nicolas Braud-Santoni, Pierre-Elliott Bécue, Stephen Gelman, Daniel Echeverry, and Dmitry Bogatov. Contributors 1603 people and 19 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2018. Statistics buster sid Discussions Debian user Aurélien Couderc asked about Bumping an epoch and reusing a package name, which led to a discussion about requesting upstream changes for Debian internal policies and the effect on users. Several alternatives are mentioned in the discussion as well pitfalls of bumping a version number. Debian user Pétùr asked for help with a File with weird permissions, impossible to delete. The discussion moves quick onto permission issues, inodes, fsck, and bad SATA cabling. Debian user Subhadip Ghosh asked, Why does Debian allow all incoming traffic by default? Tips and Tricks Jonathan McDowell continues his series of write ups on home automation with Controlling my heating with Home Assistant and Using ARP via netlink to detect presence. Antoine Beaupré shared tips for Archiving web sites using freely available tools and some knowledge. Sergio Alberti shared a guide on Reverse Engineering Bluetooth Low Energy Devices Petter Reinholdtsen shares VLC in Debian now can do bittorrent streaming. Laura Arjona Reina found a small digital photo frame and brings it back to use in Handling an old Digital Photo Frame (AX203) with Debian (and gphoto2). Once upon a time in Debian: The Creative Commons Global Summit will be held in Lisbon, Portugal May 9-11 2019. Their Call for Proposals is open until December 10th 2018. Visit https://summit.creativecommons.org/ for more details and registration. This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are provided unformatted in descending order by date (recent news at the top). November October September August Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Jean-Pierre Giraud, Justin B Rye and Laura Arjona Reina.

#### Debian Project News - August 31st, 2018

Welcome to this year's third issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you enjoy this edition of DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks too. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2018). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Happy 25th Anniversary Debian! This year's annual Debian birthday celebration, known as DebianDay, was an even more special occasion as it marked a quarter century of excellence, development, contributions, translations, software creation, advocacy, and all things Debian. Celebrations were held all over the world and several Debian designers created some amazing artwork, logos, posters, and images which we shared online. Debian 25 Years by Angelo Rosa Anniversary Logo by Mark Billings Happy Birthday by Petrusko Artwork by Daniel Lenharo Posters by Valessio Brito Thank you Debian Developers and Contributors for all that you do! Updated Debian 9 and Debian 8: 9.5 and 8.11 released The Debian project announced the fifth update of its stable distribution Debian 9 (codename Stretch) on 14 July 2018 to point release 9.5. The Debian project also announced the eleventh and final update of its oldstable distribution Debian 8 (codename Jessie) on 23 June 2018 to point release 8.11. These point releases added corrections for security issues along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Upgrading an existing installation to either revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: https://www.debian.org/mirror/list Alioth Migration to Salsa Alexander Wirt announced that Alioth is gone after the archiving of the last remaining VCS repositories. Alioth, which ran on Fusionforge, served as the repository for collaborative maintenance of packages in Debian from 2003 through 2018. After some discussion and a dedicated sprint about future options, Alioth was replaced with a GitLab instance at salsa.debian.org which came out of beta testing in early 2018. Debian Developers and projects should have already migrated over to the new system; additional information on the migration is available. Debian Data Protection Team announced Chris Lamb announced the creation and delegation of the Debian Data Protection team. The team will serve as the centralized point for queries regarding Debian's use and care of personal information across the project and guidance on data protection principles. Latest team features of Debian Package Tracker Raphael Hertzog shared the latest team features of the Debian Package Tracker. New to the tracker are helpful attributes for email address team identification, discussion subscriptions, and automatic maintainer and uploader fields along with many other features. vmdebootstrap to be removed September 2018 Lars Wirzenius encouraged users of the vmdebootstrap package to switch to other available tools prior to its removal from the archive September 2018. The package, used for automatically building system images, is somewhat difficult to modify and test due to its architecture. As other tools are available users are advised to change now. Debian Policy 4.2.0.0 released Sean Whitton announced Debian Policy 4.2.0.0 being released and uploaded to sid. The announcement details the changes from Policy 4.1.5. The Debian Policy Manual deals with the structure and contents of the Debian archive, technical requirements each package must satisfy to be included in the archive, and the package management system developers have to be conversant with. DebConf18 Videos are available Video recordings from DebConf18 are available; special thanks to the DebConf Video Team for their amazing work covering this event. Wouter Verhelst wrote about the software used for the transcoding and the different formats available for download. The schedule page on the DebConf18 website now also includes the recordings in each talk page using HTML5 video. New and noteworthy packages Among many other packages that were added to the unstable Debian archive in the past weeks, we can find: Upcoming events Debian/Xen microsprint, Cambridge, 10 September There will be a microsprint held on 10 September in Cambridge, UK, to work on Debian Xen packages for Buster. Debian Bug Squashing Party, Chemnitz, Germany 28th-30th September There will be a Bug Squashing Party on 28–30 September 2018 in Chemnitz, Germany. DebConf18 in Hsinshu The annual Debian Project's Developer Conference, which includes technical, social and policy talks and is known as DebConf, was held this year in Hsinchu, Taiwan from 29 July through 5 August. DebConf18 was the very first Debian Conference held in Asia. We welcomed over 306 attendees from around the world, and held 137 events, 100 talks, 25 Birds of a Feather discussion sessions, 5 workshops and many other activities. The schedule of events and talks were continually updated and shared on Debian micronews, and are still available. DebConf19 in Curitiba DebConf19 will be held in Curitiba, Brazil, from 21 to 28 July, 2019, and will be the second DebConf held in Brazil. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Buster cycle. Teams needing help The NM Front Desk has put out a call for help with Application Managers. Application Managers are responsible for starting a conversation with a prospective Debian Developer and recommending whether they should go forward to become Debian Developers. Packages needing help: Currently 1298 packages are orphaned and 173 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are currently 203 bugs available tagged newcomer. Jonathan McDowell shared a write-up entitled Hooking up Home Assistant to Alexa and Google Assistant which details how to set up home automation and required authentication, with a few critical security steps to avoid being another insecure device on the IoT. Benjamin Mako Hill blogged on How markets coopted free software's most powerful weapon which highlights the methodology of current business development models which use the same tools that enabled the large scale development of free culture and free software. The talk was also the keynote at LibrePlanet 2018. Ana Guerrero Lopez introduced us to debos, a versatile image generator. The tool, used to build software images, makes the task easy by using recipe files in YAML to create highly customized images. Contributors 1,484 people and 19 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2018. Discussions From the Debian-user mailing list serveral interesting questions were asked: HP Garcia asked about Verifying Digital Signatures. Fellow Debian users contributed to the discussion with pointers on how to check and keep keys and signatures current. Pierre Couderc asked How to apt update from an USB key? Readers can learn about other tried and proven methods to update sources and packages for computer systems with limited access. Martin Drecher asked about use of su vs sudo? Always a hot topic for administrators, this question introduces best practices and includes some of a history of how/when passwords are used during the initial Debian system installation and the effects on the system afterward. Richard Owlett asked about Installing package NOT in repository. This longer discussion talks about the installation of .deb files, install pathname arguments, dependency checking, dpkg, apt, and cached personal survival notes. Tips and Tricks Petter Reinholdtsen shared a tip on doing a Debian APT upgrade without enough free space on the disk. The blog post includes a script and other methods for upgrades when storage space is limited. Arturo Borrero González highlights Things you can do with Debian, Multimedia editing. He covers many of the FLOSS software packages and tools available in Debian for multimedia editing and production. Once upon a time in Debian: This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are provided unformatted in descending order by date (recent news at the top). August July June May Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Jean-Pierre Giraud, Chris Lamb and Justin B Rye.

#### Debian Project News - June 7th, 2018

Welcome to this year's second issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you are enjoying this edition of DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via-RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2018). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Updated Debian 9: 9.4 released The Debian project announced the fourth update of its stable distribution Debian 9 (codename Stretch) on 10 March 2018 to point release 9.4. This point release added corrections for security issues along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have were published separately and are referenced where available. Upgrading an existing installation to this revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: https://www.debian.org/mirror/list Notification for upcoming end-of-life for Debian 8 Be advised, DSA has given advance notice that regular security support for Debian GNU/Linux 8 (code name Jessie) will be terminated on 17 June 2018. Debian Policy 4.1.4.0 released The Debian Policy Manual has had a new version released. The Debian Policy Manual deals with the structure and contents of the Debian archive, technical requirements each package must satisfy to be included in the archive, and the package management system developers have to be conversant with. Upcoming shift to Ayatana (App)Indicator(s) Mike Gabriel reports on the upcoming shift to Ayatana Application Indicators in Debian and work on generalizing the functionality of indicator icon applications to make them more independent of the desktop environment used. The status of the work may be viewed on the Ayatana Transition page with additional background from Mike's DebConf17 talk, blog posts, and the Ayatana Packagers overview page. Debian Alioth Migration Debian has migrated several services from our aged Alioth server, which ran FusionForge, onto Salsa, based on Gitlab software. These changes to our infrastructure will allow us to continue to provide needed services, and tools for collaboration. Alexander Wirt gave a talk about the state of affairs for Salsa at the miniDebConf 2018 in Hamburg. New and noteworthy packages Among many other packages that were added to the unstable Debian archive in the past weeks, we can find: Noteworthy packages in stable Upcoming events Debian Bug Squashing Party in Brooklyn, New York, US On 24 June 2018 The NYC Debian User Group will hold a Bug Squashing Party in Brooklyn, New York. For more information view the invite page and RSVP if interested. DebConf18 in Hsinshu The 19th Annual Debian Conference will be held in Hsinchu, Taiwan, from July 29 to August 5, 2018. It will be preceded by DebCamp, July 21 to July 27, and Open Day, July 28. DebConf19 in Curitiba DebConf 19 will be held in Curitiba, Brazil on July 2019. The DebConf 19 organization team recently announced the logo contest winner. Event Reports A Debian Women Meeting took place in Curitiba, Brazil on 10th March 2018. Details of the event and schedule are on their website and wiki page. Photos are available. A miniDebConf took place in Curitiba, Brazil on 11–14 April 2018. Details of the event, schedule, and photos are on their website. There were live video streams, and the recordings are already available. A miniDebConf took place in Hamburg, Germany on 19–20 May 2018. Details of the event, schedule, and photos are on their wiki page. There were live video streams, and the recordings are already available. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Freexian’s report about Debian Long Term Support, February 2018. 196 work hours were dispatched among 12 paid contributors. The security tracker listed 60 packages with a known CVE and the dla-needed.txt file 33. Freexian’s report about Debian Long Term Support, March 2018. 214 work hours were dispatched among 13 paid contributors. The security tracker listed 31 packages with a known CVE and the dla-needed.txt file 26. Freexian’s report about Debian Long Term Support, April 2018. 183 work hours were dispatched among 13 paid contributors. The security tracker listed 20 packages with a known CVE and the dla-needed.txt file 16. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the Reproducible Builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Buster cycle. Reproducible Builds report #159. Ricardo Wurmus also published a paper titled "Reproducible bioinformatics pipelines with Guix" which outlines using GNU Guix and reproducible builds in general as a “crucial foundation for computational experiments”. 22 package reviews were updated and 36 packages were removed. Reproducible Builds: Weekly report #160. Migrated the diffoscope.org website to the jenkins.debian.net infrastucture. Updated the reproducible-builds.org website. 134 package reviews were added, 25 packages were updated, and 29 packages were removed. Reproducible Builds: Weekly report #161. Chris Lamb, Holger Levsen, Jonathan Bustillos Osornio (jathan) and Steven Chamberlain presented on Reproducible Builds at the MiniDebConfHamburg, focusing on the status in Debian Buster. Slides and links to videos are available on our Resources page. 18 package reviews were added, 45 packages were updated, and 41 packages were removed. Teams needing help Following the recent MiniDebConfHamburg, the subtitles team started to subtitle the talks. The team is looking for help to transcribe, synchronize and review subtitles, as well as for spreading the word! The dedicated wiki page summarizes the status and needs of each video. Packages needing help: Currently 1301 packages are orphaned and 158 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are 215 bugs available tagged newcomer. Debian study group / Grupo de estudos de Debian Helen Koike announces bi-weekly meetings (video call) to study Debian. The group will view and discuss João Eriberto Mota Filho's online packaging course. The meetings will be Portuguese and although the primary audience is for women/diversity, the meetings are open to all who wish to participate. The next scheduled meetings will be today, Thursday June 7 at 8PM and Thursday 21 June at 8PM. Join them on OFTC #debian-mulheres for more information. Contributors 1339 people and 19 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2018. Discussions Debian user Long Wind asked about Wireless failure after stretch installation. Debian user Harald Dunkel asked, How to view config file changes without running an upgrade? Debian user mess-mate asked, How to change the system UTF to EU character set? Once upon a time in Debian: This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are given unformatted and in descending order by date (recent news at the top). May April March Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Chris Lamb, Holger Wansing, Jean-Pierre Giraud, Justin B Rye, Paulo Henrique de Lima Santana and and Thomas Vincent..

#### Debian Project News - February 28th, 2018

Welcome to this year's first issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you are enjoying this edition of DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via-RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2017 and Security Advisories 2018). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Updated Debian 9 and Debian 8: 9.3 and 8.10 released The Debian project announced the third update of its stable distribution Debian 9 (codename Stretch) on 9 December 2017 to point release 9.3. The Debian project also announced the tenth update of its oldstable distribution Debian 8 (codename Jessie) on 9 December 2017 to point release 8.10. These point releases added corrections for security issues along with a few adjustments for serious problems. Security advisories have already been published separately and are referenced where available. Upgrading an existing installation to either revision can be achieved by pointing the package management system at one of Debian's many HTTP mirrors. A comprehensive list of mirrors is available at: https://www.debian.org/mirror/list FAI.me build service for installation images Thomas Lange has announced the FAI.me build service for customised installation images. On this web page, you can create customised images with only a few clicks. It supports different Debian distributions, all common desktop environments, several locales, backported kernels, and the option of entering a list of packages. After some time you can download your own ISO image which does a fully automatic installation using FAI. Debsources now in sources.debian.org The Debsources team is happy to announce that Debsources, which provides direct web access to the Debian operating system source code, has been moved onto the official Debian infrastructure at https://sources.debian.org. Debsources allows users to directly browse available source packages and to peruse and highlight portions of the source code files for every Debian release. It provides links via HTML and an API for programmatic use. Debian participates in Outreachy and GSoC Debian welcomes three Outreachy interns: Juliana Oliveira who will work on reproducible builds, Kira Obrezkova who will work on open-source mobile technologies, and Renata D'Avila who will work on a calendar database of social events and conferences for free software developers. The Outreachy program is available due to the efforts of Debian Developers and Donors, providing a three month internship for groups traditionally underrepresented in technology. Google, through its Google Summer of Code program, provides students with a stipend to work over the summer months on open source development. Debian is happy to announce that we will be participating as a mentoring organisation this year. We are looking for mentors and students that would like to participate. Additional information is available on our Summer of Code 2018 wiki page; if you are able to mentor please contact the Debian Outreach Team via mailing list to join as a mentor. New IRC channel #debian-til There is a new IRC channel #debian-til for sharing things that you recently learned about Debian. Quoting the topic of the channel: Share something that you've learned today (or whenever) prefixed by "TIL" (yes, even when YIL would be "correct"). Can be something technical, social or anything else somewhat relevant to Debian - Judgement-free zone! Post anything, however "obvious"!. More info about the Debian IRC channels can be found in https://wiki.debian.org/IRC. Misc Developer News Paul Wise posted Misc Developer News #45. Highlights include debhelper compat 11, KGB now supporting GitLab webhooks (for salsa), the change of the mentors.debian.net FTP upload queue, a call to review your debtags today, and Purism hardware discounts for Debian Developers. New and noteworthy packages Among many other packages that were added to the unstable Debian archive in the last weeks, we can find: Upcoming events Debian Bug Squashing Party in Tirana, Albania There will be a Bug Squashing Party on 3 and 4 March 2018, held in Tirana, Albania, hosted by the Open Labs Hackerspace. MiniDebConf Curitiba 2018 Members of the Debian community in Curitiba met at Positivo University to discuss organising a 2018 Curitiba MiniDebConf which will take place April 11 to 14 at the central campus of the Federal University of Technology - Paraná (UTFPR). Registration is free and there will be a crowdfunding campaign to help finance the event. MiniDebConf Hamburg 2018 A miniDebConf will take place in Hamburg (Germany) from May 16 to 20, with three days of Debcamp style hacking, followed by two days of talks, workshops and more hacking. Read the announce and visit the wiki page of the event where you can get all the details, register for the event, and help in the organisation. Debian presence at events There'll be a Debian booth at the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage 2018 taking place in the Zentrales Hörsaal- und Seminar-Gebäude of the Technical University Chemnitz from Saturday 10 March to Sunday 11 March 2018. The first CLT was held in 1999 and Debian has taken part in the event since 2002. If anyone is interested in helping with the booth, please have a look at the wiki page: https://wiki.debian.org/DebianEvents/de/2018/ChemnitzerLinuxTage FOSSASIA Summit will take place in Singapore 22–25 March 2018; several Debian Developers and contributors will attend, and maybe organise a Debian booth. Please get in touch via the debian-events-apac mailing list for details and help or coordination. DebConf18 in Hsinshu The organisation of DebConf18 (Hsinshu, Taiwan, 29 July–5 August 2018) is going on. DebConf18 will be preceded by one week of DebCamp, Saturday, July 21 through Friday, July 27. The Call for Proposals was published on 7 February 2018. You can now sign into the website and submit an event, or write to the content team at content@debconf.org to suggest an invited speaker. Talk proposals must be submitted by Sunday 17 June 2018 at the latest. Registration will open soon and you can subscribe to debconf-announce to be notified when registration opens. Bursary applications will be available together with registration and must be submitted by 13 April. As of now, eleven companies or organisations have decided to support the event, and DebConf18 is still accepting sponsors; visit its website for more details. DebConf19 in Curitiba DebConf19 will be hosted in Curitiba, Brazil. See the Debian Curitiba bid for details. Event Reports MiniDebConf Toulouse 2017 A miniDebConf took place in Toulouse, France, on 18–19 November 2017 organised by Debian France Association together with the Capitole du libre, the help of the Toulibre association, and the support of Evolix. The event was a real success with more than twenty-five attendees at each session. Details of the event are on the wiki page. MiniDebConf Cambridge 2017 Another miniDebConf took place in Cambridge, UK, on 23–26 November 2017. Details of the event, schedule, and photos are on their wiki page. There were live video streams, and the recordings are already available. Debian presence at events There was a Debian presence at the XIV Goiano Free Software Forum (FGSL) in Goiânia (Brazil) last November (talks and booth), at LinuxDay in Dornbirn (Austria) last December (Debian booth), at Campus Party Brasil 2018 in São Paulo (Brazil) and at FOSDEM 2018 in Brussels (Belgium) in February (Debian booth). LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the reproducible builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Stretch cycle. Packages needing help: Currently 1262 packages are orphaned and 164 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are 226 bugs available tagged newcomer. Contributors 941 people and 16 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2018. Discussions On the Debian-user mailing list, Debian user Jason asked how to create a PDF-Printer from the command line. A large discussion covered many questions asking: Is (La)TeX text or not, what exactly is a mimetype, why not a2ps or lp, and file bloat for PDF creation. There are lots of tips and tricks throughout the thread for those wondering about the same question. Debian user Richard Hector asked about the policy on the wontfix bug tag used by maintainers. The thread covered many topics and discussions about the actual output from the date command, interactive shells, the question of what day is it really?, the fuzzy grammar of the date string, parsers, mail LDOSUBSCRIBER, and the formail component of procmail. A very interesting read! Once upon a time in Debian: This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are given unformatted and in descending order by date (recent news at the top). February January December November Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Thomas Lange, Paulo Henrique de Lima Santana and and Jean-Pierre Giraud..

#### Debian Project News - November 9th, 2017

Welcome to this year's fourth issue of DPN, the newsletter for the Debian community. Topics covered in this issue include: We hope that you are enjoying this edition of DPN. For other news, please read the official Debian blog Bits from Debian, and follow https://micronews.debian.org which feeds (via-RSS) the @debian profile on several social networks. Debian's Security Team releases current advisories on a daily basis (Security Advisories 2017). Please read them carefully and subscribe to the security mailing list. At the end of this Project News we've added a Quick Links section which links to a selection of the posts made through our other media streams. Updated Debian 9: 9.2 released The second update of the stable distribution Debian 9 Stretch was published on 7 October 2017. This update mainly adds corrections for security problems to the stable release, along with a few adjustments for serious problems. After the 9.2.0 release was made and published, a bug was found with the sorting of packages in the full DVD, BD and DLBD sets (other images were not affected). The 9.2.1 build fixes this bug, and the build scripts have also been updated to ensure this cannot happen again in future. For more details about this, see the related note at the images download server. OpenSSL 1.0 and Qt4 removal in Buster For the next release, Debian 10 Buster, it's planned to remove OpenSSL 1.0, the old version of the toolkit for the Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocols, in favour of the more modern OpenSSL 1.1 version. Meanwhile, Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers are also actively working to remove Qt4, which is long dead upstream. Lisandro Damián Nicanor Pérez Meyer, for the Debian Qt/KDE Team, has blogged about the specific plans related to the OpenSSL support for Qt4 and Qt5 applications in Debian. FTP services shutdown As previously announced, the public-facing debian.org FTP services shut down on November 1, 2017. Debian Developers can use FTP for the uploads to the security archive at ftp://ftp.security.upload.debian.org/pub/SecurityUploadQueue. More details and other options at https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2017/10/msg00000.html. DebConf mailing lists moved to lists.debian.org In order to simplify infrastructure and maintenance, the DebConf mailing lists have been moved to lists.debian.org (including their archives and subscriptions). Appropriate redirections have been put in place, but it is recommended for everybody to update any documentation or bookmarks with the new addresses or web links. Read the blog post from Alexander Wirt for more details. New and noteworthy packages Among many other packages that were added to the unstable Debian archive in the last weeks, we can find: There will be a Debian booth at T-DOSE in Eindhoven, Netherlands, next 18 and 19 November 2017. Everybody is invited to pass by and of course, to help spreading the word about Debian in the booth (visit the wiki page for more details and coordination). The Toulouse MiniDebConf 2017 will take place during the Capitole du Libre event on November 18 and 19 2017, and MiniDebConf Cambridge (UK) will happen the following weekend, from Thursday 23 to Sunday 26 November 2017. The Debian Cloud team gathered in a Sprint from 16 to 18 October 2017, to resolve some of the open issues that were discussed at the cloud sprint 2016 and the Cloud BoF discussion session at Debconf17. A Debian Bug Squashing Party in Salzburg, Austria, took place on the weekend of October 20–22 2017. MiniDebConf Cuba took place during CubaConf 2017, the Free Technologies Cuban Conference from 7 to 9 November 2017, with several talks related to Debian and other activities. LTS Freexian Monthly Reports Freexian issues monthly reports about the work of paid contributors to Debian Long Term Support. Reproducible Builds status update Follow the reproducible builds blog to get the weekly reports on their work in the Stretch cycle. Packages needing help Currently 1153 packages are orphaned and 151 packages are up for adoption: please visit the complete list of packages which need your help. Newcomer bugs Debian has a newcomer bug tag, used to indicate bugs which are suitable for new contributors to use as an entry point to working on specific packages. There are 210 bugs available tagged newcomer. Contributors 1799 people and 20 teams are currently listed on the Debian Contributors page for 2017. Once upon a time in Debian: The Reproducible Builds Summit 2017 took place between October 31 and November 2 2017. Debian has participated together with other free software distributions and projects in order to continue working in providing a verifiable path from software source code to its compiled binary form. During the openSUSE.Asia Summit 2017 in Tokyo this October, Hideki Yamane gave a talk about openSUSE tools on Debian. GitLab Inc. is switching from Contributor License Agreement (CLA) to Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) for its source code contributions. This change gives developers greater flexibility and portability, and aims to encourage contributions to their web-based Git repository manager. GitLab Community Edition is the basis for Salsa, the upcoming collaborative development server that will host the Debian git repositories that are currently on Alioth. This is an extract from the micronews.debian.org feed, in which we have removed the topics already commented on in this DPN issue. You can skip this section if you already follow micronews.debian.org or the @debian profile in a social network (Pump.io, GNU Social, Mastodon or Twitter). The items are given unformatted and in descending order by date (recent news at the top). November October September Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteer writers to watch the Debian community and report about what is going on. Please see the contributing page to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your mail at debian-publicity@lists.debian.org. Subscribe or Unsubscribe from the Debian News mailing list To receive this newsletter in your mailbox, subscribe to the debian-news mailing list. Back issues of this newsletter are available. This issue of Debian Project News was edited by The Publicity Team with contributions from Jean-Pierre Giraud.

### debian-security-announce

#### DSA-5527-1 webkit2gtk -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '12 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'webkit2gtk', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-39928, CVE-2023-41074, CVE-2023-41993.", 'More information': 'The following vulnerabilities have been discovered in the WebKitGTK web engine:\nCVE-2023-39928\nMarcin Noga discovered that a specially crafted web page can abuse a vulnerability in the MediaRecorder API to cause memory corruption and potentially arbitrary code execution.\nCVE-2023-41074\nJunsung Lee and Me Li discovered that processing web content may lead to arbitrary code execution.\nCVE-2023-41993\nBill Marczak and Maddie Stone discovered that processing web content may lead to arbitrary code execution. Apple is aware of a report that this issue may have been actively exploited.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 2.42.1-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your webkit2gtk packages.\nFor the detailed security status of webkit2gtk please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/webkit2gtk'}

#### DSA-5526-1 chromium -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '12 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'chromium', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-5218, CVE-2023-5473, CVE-2023-5474, CVE-2023-5475, CVE-2023-5476, CVE-2023-5477, CVE-2023-5478, CVE-2023-5479, CVE-2023-5481, CVE-2023-5483, CVE-2023-5484, CVE-2023-5485, CVE-2023-5486, CVE-2023-5487.", 'More information': 'Multiple security issues were discovered in Chromium, which could result in the execution of arbitrary code, denial of service or information disclosure.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye) the updates need an additional toolchain update. When completed, fixes will be made available as 118.0.5993.70-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your chromium packages.\nFor the detailed security status of chromium please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/chromium'}

#### DSA-5522-1 tomcat9 -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '10 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'tomcat9', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-24998, CVE-2023-41080, CVE-2023-42795, CVE-2023-44487, CVE-2023-45648.", 'More information': 'Several security vulnerabilities have been discovered in the Tomcat servlet and JSP engine.\nCVE-2023-24998\nDenial of service. Tomcat uses a packaged renamed copy of Apache Commons FileUpload to provide the file upload functionality defined in the Jakarta Servlet specification. Apache Tomcat was, therefore, also vulnerable to the Commons FileUpload vulnerability CVE-2023-24998 as there was no limit to the number of request parts processed. This resulted in the possibility of an attacker triggering a DoS with a malicious upload or series of uploads.\nCVE-2023-41080\nOpen redirect. If the ROOT (default) web application is configured to use FORM authentication then it is possible that a specially crafted URL could be used to trigger a redirect to an URL of the attackers choice.\nCVE-2023-42795\nInformation Disclosure. When recycling various internal objects, including the request and the response, prior to re-use by the next request/response, an error could cause Tomcat to skip some parts of the recycling process leading to information leaking from the current request/response to the next.\nCVE-2023-44487\nDoS caused by HTTP/2 frame overhead (Rapid Reset Attack)\nCVE-2023-45648\nRequest smuggling. Tomcat did not correctly parse HTTP trailer headers. A specially crafted, invalid trailer header could cause Tomcat to treat a single request as multiple requests leading to the possibility of request smuggling when behind a reverse proxy.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 9.0.43-2deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 1:1.39.5-1deb11u6.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 2.06-13+deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your grub2 packages.\nFor the detailed security status of grub2 please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/grub2"}

#### DSA-5518-1 libvpx -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '05 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'libvpx', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-44488.", 'More information': 'It was discovered that missing input sanitising in the encoding support in libvpx, a multimedia library for the VP8 and VP9 video codecs, may result in denial of service.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 1.9.0-1+deb11u2.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), this problem has been fixed in version 1.12.0-1+deb12u2.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your libvpx packages.\nFor the detailed security status of libvpx please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/libvpx'}

#### DSA-5517-1 libx11 -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '05 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'libx11', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-43785, CVE-2023-43786, CVE-2023-43787.", 'More information': 'Multiple security vulnerabilities were discovered in libx11, the X11 client-side library, which may result in denial of service or the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 2:1.7.2-1+deb11u2.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 2:1.8.4-2+deb12u2.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your libx11 packages.\nFor the detailed security status of libx11 please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/libx11'}

#### DSA-5516-1 libxpm -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '05 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'libxpm', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-43788, CVE-2023-43789.", 'More information': 'Multiple security vulnerabilities were discovered in libxpm, the X11 pixmap library, which may result in denial of service or the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 1:3.5.12-1.1+deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 1:3.5.12-1.1+deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your libxpm packages.\nFor the detailed security status of libxpm please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/libxpm'}

#### DSA-5515-1 chromium -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '04 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'chromium', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-5346.", 'More information': 'A security issue was discovered in Chromium, which could result in the execution of arbitrary code, denial of service or information disclosure.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 117.0.5938.149-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your chromium packages.\nFor the detailed security status of chromium please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/chromium'}

#### DSA-5514-1 glibc -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '03 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'glibc', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-4911.", 'More information': "The Qualys Research Labs discovered a buffer overflow in the dynamic loader's processing of the GLIBC_TUNABLES environment variable. An attacker can exploit this flaw for privilege escalation.\nDetails can be found in the Qualys advisory at https://www.qualys.com/2023/10/03/cve-2023-4911/looney-tunables-local-privilege-escalation-glibc-ld-so.txt\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 2.31-13+deb11u7.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), this problem has been fixed in version 2.36-9+deb12u3. This update includes fixes for CVE-2023-4527 and CVE-2023-4806 originally planned for the upcoming bookworm point release.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your glibc packages.\nFor the detailed security status of glibc please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/glibc"}

#### DSA-5513-1 thunderbird -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '03 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'thunderbird', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-5176, CVE-2023-5171, CVE-2023-5169.", 'More information': "Multiple security issues were discovered in Thunderbird, which could result in denial of service or the execution of arbitrary code.\nDebian follows the Thunderbird upstream releases. Support for the 102.x series has ended, so starting with this update we're now following the 115.x series.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 1:115.3.1-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your thunderbird packages.\nFor the detailed security status of thunderbird please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/thunderbird"}

#### DSA-5512-1 exim4 -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '02 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'exim4', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-42114, CVE-2023-42115, CVE-2023-42116.", 'More information': 'Several vulnerabilities were discovered in Exim, a mail transport agent, which could result in remote code execution if the EXTERNAL or SPA/NTLM authenticators are used.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 4.94.2-7+deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 4.96-15+deb12u2.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your exim4 packages.\nFor the detailed security status of exim4 please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/exim4'}

#### DSA-5511-1 mosquitto -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '01 Oct 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'mosquitto', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In the Debian bugtracking system: Bug 993400, Bug 1001028.\nIn Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2021-34434, CVE-2023-0809, CVE-2023-3592, CVE-2023-28366, CVE-2021-41039.", 'More information': 'Several security vulnerabilities have been discovered in mosquitto, a MQTT compatible message broker, which may be abused for a denial of service attack.\nCVE-2021-34434\nIn Eclipse Mosquitto when using the dynamic security plugin, if the ability for a client to make subscriptions on a topic is revoked when a durable client is offline, then existing subscriptions for that client are not revoked.\nCVE-2023-0809\nFix excessive memory being allocated based on malicious initial packets that are not CONNECT packets.\nCVE-2023-3592\nFix memory leak when clients send v5 CONNECT packets with a will message that contains invalid property types.\nCVE-2023-28366\nThe broker in Eclipse Mosquitto has a memory leak that can be abused remotely when a client sends many QoS 2 messages with duplicate message IDs, and fails to respond to PUBREC commands. This occurs because of mishandling of EAGAIN from the libc send function.\nAdditionally CVE-2021-41039 has been fixed for Debian 11 Bullseye.\nCVE-2021-41039\nAn MQTT v5 client connecting with a large number of user-property properties could cause excessive CPU usage, leading to a loss of performance and possible denial of service.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 2.0.11-1+deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 2.0.11-1.2+deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your mosquitto packages.\nFor the detailed security status of mosquitto please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/mosquitto'}

#### DSA-5510-1 libvpx -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '29 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'libvpx', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In the Debian bugtracking system: Bug 1053182.\nIn Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-5217.", 'More information': 'Clement Lecigne discovered a heap-based buffer overflow in libvpx, a multimedia library for the VP8 and VP9 video codecs, which may result in the execution of arbitrary code if a specially crafted VP8 media stream is processed.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 1.9.0-1+deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), this problem has been fixed in version 1.12.0-1+deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your libvpx packages.\nFor the detailed security status of libvpx please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/libvpx'}

#### DSA-5509-1 firefox-esr -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '29 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'firefox-esr', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-5217.", 'More information': 'A buffer overflow in VP8 media stream processing has been found in the Mozilla Firefox web browser, which could potentially result in the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 115.3.1esr-1deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 117.0.5938.132-1deb11u1.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 115.3.0esr-1deb11u1. The oldstable distribution (bullseye) is only affected by CVE-2023-3341.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), these problems have been fixed in version 1:9.18.19-1ds-8+deb11u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your netatalk packages.\nFor the detailed security status of netatalk please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/netatalk'}

#### DSA-5502-1 xrdp -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '18 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'xrdp', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In the Debian bugtracking system: Bug 1025879.\nIn Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2022-23468, CVE-2022-23477, CVE-2022-23478, CVE-2022-23479, CVE-2022-23480, CVE-2022-23481, CVE-2022-23482, CVE-2022-23483, CVE-2022-23484, CVE-2022-23493.", 'More information': 'Multiple security vulnerabilities have been found in xrdp, a remote desktop protocol server. Buffer overflows and out-of-bound writes may cause a denial of service or other unspecified impact.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 0.9.21.1-1deb12u2.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your gnome-shell packages.\nFor the detailed security status of gnome-shell please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/gnome-shell"}

#### DSA-5500-1 flac -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '18 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'flac', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2020-22219.", 'More information': 'A buffer overflow was discovered in flac, a library handling Free Lossless Audio Codec media, which could potentially result in the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 1.3.3-2+deb11u2.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your flac packages.\nFor the detailed security status of flac please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/flac'}

#### DSA-5499-1 chromium -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '18 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'chromium', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In the Debian bugtracking system: Bug 1042111.\nIn Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-4900, CVE-2023-4901, CVE-2023-4902, CVE-2023-4903, CVE-2023-4904, CVE-2023-4905, CVE-2023-4906, CVE-2023-4907, CVE-2023-4908, CVE-2023-4909.", 'More information': 'Multiple security issues were discovered in Chromium, which could result in the execution of arbitrary code, denial of service or information disclosure.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), these problems have been fixed in version 117.0.5938.62-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your chromium packages.\nFor the detailed security status of chromium please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/chromium'}

#### DSA-5497-1 libwebp -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '13 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'libwebp', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-4863.", 'More information': 'A buffer overflow in parsing WebP images may result in the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the stable distribution (bookworm), this problem has been fixed in version 1.2.4-0.2+deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your libwebp packages.\nFor the detailed security status of libwebp please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/libwebp'}

#### DSA-5498-1 thunderbird -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '15 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'thunderbird', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-4863.", 'More information': 'A buffer overflow in parsing WebP images may result in the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 1:102.15.1-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your thunderbird packages.\nFor the detailed security status of thunderbird please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/thunderbird'}

#### DSA-5496-1 firefox-esr -- security update

Unknown content: {'Date Reported': '13 Sep 2023', 'Affected Packages': 'firefox-esr', 'Vulnerable': 'Yes', 'Security database references': "In Mitre's CVE dictionary: CVE-2023-4863.", 'More information': 'A buffer overflow in parsing WebP images may result in the execution of arbitrary code.\nFor the oldstable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in version 102.15.1esr-1deb12u1.\nWe recommend that you upgrade your firefox-esr packages.\nFor the detailed security status of firefox-esr please refer to its security tracker page at: https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/firefox-esr'}

## News for Debian contributors

### #debian-devel IRC channel topic

Current issues regarding Debian Project and Debian/Unstable.
#debian-devel topic is also available at DevelopersCorner.

### debian-devel-announce

Announcements for "developers" (like policy changes, important release issues, teams news).
debian-devel-announce (contribute).

