
DebConf 14 closes in Portland and DebConf 15 dates announced
============================================================


**August 31st, 2014**


Today, Sunday 31st August 2014, the annual Debian Developers and
Contributors Conference came to a close. With over 300 people attending from
all over the world, 80 hours of talks in over 100 events, the conference has
been hailed as a success by head local organiser Steve Langasek.


"I'm pleased with how the conference has gone. Each year I'm impressed with
the commitment of the conference attendees to making the largest free operating
system in the world, and this year was no exception. DebConf is a focal point
for everyone who's involved in the project, and really helps move us together
in creating not only Debian, but a free software ecosystem more widely.
Particular thanks go to Intel and all our sponsors without whom the conference
would not be possible." said Steve.


Highlights included:


* "Weapons of the Geek" keynote on Anonymous by Professor Gabriella
Coleman
* "Debian in the Dark Ages of Free Software" plenary talk by former Debian
Project Leader Stefano Zacchiroli
* "Debian and the FSF working together to advance free software" talk by FSF
Executive Director John Sullivan
* An update on the state of the next Debian stable release, codenamed
"Jessie"
* Introduction to SteamOS and Debian
* HP's Debian-based OpenStack Helion


For those not able to attend, talks and sessions were recorded and live
streamed, and videos will be made available at
[the Debian meetings archive website](http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2014/debconf14/).


Next year, DebConf will be held in Heidelberg, Germany, from 15th to 22nd
August 2015. The local organisers will again organise Debcamp in the days
before DebConf, a session for some intense work on improving the distribution.
Local organiser Michael Banck said "We invite everyone to Heidelberg for next
year's DebConf. The chosen venue will allow for a conference under one roof,
with lots of space and nature around. I'm looking forward to yet another
successful conference".


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a full
schedule of technical, social, and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors, and other interested people
to meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Scotland, Argentina, and
Bosnia and Herzegovina. More information about DebConf is available
from [the DebConf Website](https://debconf.org/).


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and maintain
Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and supporting a huge range
of computer types, Debian calls itself the "universal operating system".



