
Long term support for Debian 6.0 Announced
==========================================


**April 24th, 2014**


The Debian project is pleased to announce that although regular security
support for Debian GNU/Linux 6.0 (code name squeeze) will be terminated
on 31 May, long term support for the distribution is going to be extended
until February 2016, i.e. five years after the initial release. This effort is
driven by various interested parties / companies which require longer security
support.


Squeeze-LTS will only support i386 and amd64, rather than the full range of
architectures. Users of other architectures are encouraged to upgrade to Debian
7 (wheezy). Additionally, a few packages will not be supported in the
LTS version of the release, primarily some web-based applications which cannot
be supported for the additional timeframe. A tool will be provided to detect
such unsupported packages.


The release will not be handled by the Debian security team, but by a
separate group of volunteers and companies interested in making it a success
(with some overlap in people involved). Companies using Debian who are
interested in aiding this effort should contact team@security.debian.org.
Importantly, the success of Squeeze-LTS will be used to judge the viability of
LTS support for Debian 7 (wheezy) and Debian 8 (jessie).


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who
volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free
operating system Debian.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at <https://www.debian.org/>, send mail to
<press@debian.org>, or contact the stable release team at
<debian-release@lists.debian.org>.



