
FSF and Debian join forces to help free software users find the hardware they need
==================================================================================


**September 8th, 2014**


The Free Software Foundation (FSF) and the Debian project today announced
cooperation to expand and enhance [h-node](http://h-node.org), a
database to help users learn and share information about computers that work
with free software operating systems.


While other databases list hardware that is technically compatible with
GNU/Linux, h-node lists hardware as compatible only if it does not require any
proprietary software or firmware. Information about hardware that flunks this
test is also included, so users know what to avoid. The database lists
individual components, like wifi and video cards, as well as complete notebook
systems.


The compatibility information comes from users testing hardware on systems
running only free software. Previously, h-node site guidelines required they be
running one of the FSF's [endorsed distributions](https://www.gnu.org/distros/free-distros.html).
While the FSF does not include Debian on this list because the Debian project
provides a repository of nonfree software, the FSF does acknowledge that
Debian's main repository, which by default is the only place packages come
from, is completely free.


Unlike other common GNU/Linux distributions, installing official Debian by
default means installing only free software. As long as Debian users do not add
additional package repositories, their systems are a reliable source of fully
free compatibility information. We're looking forward to working with Debian to
help free software users get the hardware they need, and encourage the
companies who provide it, said FSF's executive director John Sullivan.


By collaborating with h-node, Debian for the first time has the opportunity
to join efforts with other free software communities on the assembly of a
database of hardware that doesn't require anything outside the Debian main
archive to work properly, said Lucas Nussbaum, Debian Project Leader. Debian
is confident that the fruits of this collaboration will result in the largest,
curated database of Debian-compatible hardware, and invites all Debian
community members to contribute hardware compatibility information to
h-node.


H-node was started by Antonio Gallo, who continues to be the project's lead
developer. The FSF now provides infrastructure and support. The software
powering the site is also distributed as free software under version 3 of the
GNU General Public License.


Users can contribute either by running one of the FSF's endorsed
distributions, or Debian with only packages from the default main archive
installed. Developers and translators can contribute by working on the site's
code. Information for getting involved is at <http://h-node.org/help/page/en/Help>.


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential free software projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and maintain
Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and supporting a huge range
of computer types, Debian calls itself the "universal operating system".


More information about the Free Software Foundation can be found at [the FSF website](http://www.fsf.org/about/).



