
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-5070-1 cryptsetup -- security update
----------------------------------------



Date Reported:
10 Feb 2022
Affected Packages:

[cryptsetup](https://packages.debian.org/src:cryptsetup)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In the Debian bugtracking system: [Bug 1003686](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=1003686), [Bug 949336](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=949336).  
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2021-4122](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2021-4122).  

More information:

* [CVE-2021-4122](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2021-4122)
Milan Broz, its maintainer, discovered an issue in cryptsetup, the disk
 encryption configuration tool for Linux.


LUKS2 (an on-disk format) online reencryption is an optional extension to
 allow a user to change the data reencryption key while the data device is
 available for use during the whole reencryption process.


An attacker can modify on-disk metadata to simulate decryption in progress
 with crashed (unfinished) reencryption step and persistently decrypt part
 of the LUKS2 device (LUKS1 devices are indirectly affected as well, see
 below).


This attack requires repeated physical access to the LUKS2 device but no
 knowledge of user passphrases.


The decryption step is performed after a valid user activates the device
 with a correct passphrase and modified metadata.


The size of possible decrypted data per attack step depends on configured
 LUKS2 header size (metadata size is configurable for LUKS2). With the
 default LUKS2 parameters (16 MiB header) and only one allocated keyslot
 (512 bit key for AES-XTS), simulated decryption with checksum resilience
 SHA1 (20 bytes checksum for 4096-byte blocks), the maximal decrypted size
 can be over 3GiB.


The attack is not applicable to LUKS1 format, but the attacker can update
 metadata in place to LUKS2 format as an additional step. For such a
 converted LUKS2 header, the keyslot area is limited to decrypted size (with
 SHA1 checksums) over 300 MiB.


LUKS devices that were formatted using a cryptsetup binary from Debian
 Stretch or earlier are using LUKS1. However since Debian Buster the default
 on-disk LUKS format version is LUKS2. In particular, encrypted devices
 formatted by the Debian Buster and Bullseye installers are using LUKS2 by
 default.
* Key truncation in dm-integrity
 This update additionaly fixes a key truncation issue for standalone
 dm-integrity devices using HMAC integrity protection. For existing such
 devices with extra long HMAC keys (typically >106 bytes of length), one
 might need to manually truncate the key using integritysetup(8)'s
 --integrity-key-size option in order to properly map the device under
 2:2.3.7-1+deb11u1 and later.


Only standalone dm-integrity devices are affected. dm-crypt devices,
 including those using authenticated disk encryption, are unaffected.


For the oldstable distribution (buster), this problem is not present.


For the stable distribution (bullseye), this problem has been fixed in
version 2:2.3.7-1+deb11u1.


We recommend that you upgrade your cryptsetup packages.


For the detailed security status of cryptsetup please refer to
its security tracker page at:
<https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/cryptsetup>





