
New Debian security mirror for Asia
===================================


**February 6th, 2015**



The Debian Project is pleased to announce a new security.debian.org mirror with
hardware and hosting provided by SAKURA Internet, Inc. The new host is located
in and serves content from Japan.




The hardware and hosting donation will allow the Debian Systems Administration
(DSA) team to improve Debian's core services by providing a security mirror
archive for Asia and is another step towards decentralized and stable security
mirror access for world.




In combination with the GeoDNS feature used by Debian, the new mirror should
speed up downloads for our users in that geographical area drastically. This is
a welcome improvement in the worldwide coverage of dedicated official
security.debian.org mirrors, administrated by the Debian project said
Martin Zobel-Helas, a member of the Debian System Administrator team.




SAKURA Internet is a leading Japanese hosting service provider which
hosts many servers running the Debian operating system. SAKURA is very honored
to have an opportunity to support Debian's security mirror system and wishes
to continue supporting the Debian community says Kunihiro Tanaka, Founder,
CEO, and President of SAKURA Internet.



About SAKURA Internet
---------------------



SAKURA Internet, Inc (3778:Tokyo) is a leading independent Internet Data Center
service provider in Japan. The company has been engaging in the provision of
Internet services since 1996 and has gained many customers and users through
offering server rental services, hosting, VPS, and data center services
including Cloud Computing.



Learn more about SAKURA's newest Data Center at <http://ishikari.sakura.ad.jp/index_eng.html>.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



