
Marvell donation accelerates Debian ARM package builds
======================================================


**January 8th, 2015**



Starting in April, several Debian ARM port builder machines have been
upgraded to substantially faster Marvell Armada XP based servers. Marvell has
donated eight Marvell MV78460 SoC development boards using Marvell Armada
370/XP CPUs running at 1.6GHz.




Debian's distributed build cluster requires high performance and high
reliability from the machines used. explains Riku Voipio, Debian ARM port
maintainer. We are confident the new machines will serve us as well as the
previous Marvell Discovery Innovation-based builders which have been operating
24/7 since 2009.




The Debian ARM port has a long relationship with Marvell: the Marvell Orion
and Kirkwood based systems are some of the devices supported best by the Debian
ARM port.



About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly free
community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of the
largest and most influential projects. Thousands of volunteers from all
over the world work together to create and maintain Debian software.
Available in 70 languages, and supporting a huge range of computer
types, Debian calls itself the universal operating system.



About Marvell's ARMADA XP
-------------------------



The ARMADA XP is based on Marvell-designed ARM v7 MP compatible CPU offering
1.6GHz processing per core to deliver 16,600 DMIPS to make high performance
computing affordable for mainstream applications. It integrates 2 MB of L2
cache and supports 64-bit DDR3 memory interface with ECC at 800MHz clock rate
to enable a high throughput memory sub-system design. The ARMADA XP is a highly
integrated System-on-a-Chip (SoC) that combines quad x4 PCI-express (PCI-e)
interfaces, multiple USB ports, Gigabit Ethernet ports, SATA ports, security
engine and other I/O peripherals to make system designs simple and economical.
With ARMADA XP's advanced power management architecture, it offers the
industry's best performance per watt to alleviate the challenges of energy and
cooling costs faced by enterprise and server class systems. ARMADA XP SoC is
fully supported by upstream Linux kernel open source software project. For more
information, visit:
<http://www.marvell.com/embedded-processors/armada-xp/>.



About Marvell
-------------



Marvell (NASDAQ: MRVL) is a world leader in the development of storage,
communications, and consumer silicon solutions. Marvell's diverse product
portfolio includes switching, transceiver, communications controller, wireless,
and storage solutions that power the entire communications infrastructure
including enterprise, metro, home, and storage networking. As used in this
release, the term Marvell refers to Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its
subsidiaries. For more information, visit <http://www.marvell.com>.




Marvell and the M logo are registered trademarks of Marvell and/or its
affiliates. ARMADA and Discovery are trademarks of Marvell and/or its
affiliates. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



