
Handshake donates $300,000 USD to Debian
========================================


**March 29th, 2019**



In 2018 the Debian project received a donation of $300,000 USD from
[Handshake](https://handshake.org/), an organization developing an
experimental peer-to-peer root domain naming system.




This significant financial contribution will help Debian to continue the
hardware replacement plan designed by the
[Debian System Administrators](https://wiki.debian.org/Teams/DSA),
renewing servers and other hardware components and thus making the
development and community infrastructure of the Project more reliable.




*A deep and sincere thank you to the Handshake Foundation for their
support of the Debian Project.* said Chris Lamb, Debian Project Leader.
*Contributions such as theirs make it possible for a large number of
diverse contributors from all over the world to work together towards our
mutual goal of developing a fully-free universal operating system.*




Handshake is a decentralized, permissionless naming protocol compatible
with DNS where every peer is validating and in charge of managing the
root zone with the goal of creating an alternative to existing
Certificate Authorities.




The Handshake project, its sponsors and contributors recognize Free and
Open Source Software as a crucial part of the foundations of the
Internet and their project, so they decided to reinvest back into free
software by gifting $10,200,000 USD to various FLOSS developers and projects,
as well as non-profit organizations and universities that support free software development.




Thank you very much, Handshake, for your support!



About Debian
------------


The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who
volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free
operating system Debian.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)>.



