
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-3325-1 apache2 -- security update
-------------------------------------



Date Reported:
01 Aug 2015
Affected Packages:

[apache2](https://packages.debian.org/src:apache2)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2015-3183](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2015-3183), [CVE-2015-3185](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2015-3185).  

More information:

Several vulnerabilities have been found in the Apache HTTPD server.


* [CVE-2015-3183](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2015-3183)
An HTTP request smuggling attack was possible due to a bug in
 parsing of chunked requests. A malicious client could force the
 server to misinterpret the request length, allowing cache poisoning
 or credential hijacking if an intermediary proxy is in use.
* [CVE-2015-3185](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2015-3185)
A design error in the ap\_some\_auth\_required function renders the
 API unusuable in apache2 2.4.x. This could lead to modules using
 this API to allow access when they should otherwise not do so.
 The fix backports the new ap\_some\_authn\_required API from 2.4.16.
 This issue does not affect the oldstable distribution (wheezy).


In addition, the updated package for the oldstable distribution (wheezy)
removes a limitation of the Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters to 1024 bits.
This limitation may potentially allow an attacker with very large
computing resources, like a nation-state, to break DH key exchange by
precomputation. The updated apache2 package also allows to configure
custom DH parameters. More information is contained in the
changelog.Debian.gz file.
These improvements were already present in the stable, testing, and
unstable distributions.


For the oldstable distribution (wheezy), these problems have been fixed
in version 2.2.22-13+deb7u5.


For the stable distribution (jessie), these problems have been fixed in
version 2.4.10-10+deb8u1.


For the testing distribution (stretch), these problems will be fixed
soon.


For the unstable distribution (sid), these problems will be fixed soon.


We recommend that you upgrade your apache2 packages.





