
Debian Conference ends in Success
=================================


**July 24th, 2005**


### Sixth Debian Developers' Conference ends in Success


More than 300 people attended this year's Debian Conference, which
took place from July 9th to 17th at the Helsinki University of
Technology in Espoo,
Finland. The conference has been supported by more than 20 sponsors
and featured a lot of talks, workshops, demonstrations, coding
marathons and round table discussions on various aspects of the Debian
project.


Highlights include a presentation about the large-scale deployment
of 80,000 Debian workstations in Extremadura, Spain, along with
several talks about popular Debian derivatives such as Skolelinux and
Ubuntu. The presentations were captured by the Video Team and are
available online at <http://dc5video.debian.net>.


The conference broke several records, making it the largest Debian
conference ever. The number of sponsors and the value of their
commitment exceeded that of previous Debian conferences. This year,
more than 20 sponsors provided the Debian Conference with a total
budget of around 125,000 Euros. This generosity made it possible to,
among other things, provide housing and food for almost 200
participants.


The conference was an organisational challenge that required a large
team of organisers and volunteers, who were working around the clock
to coordinate the event. The Debian Project Leader, Branden Robinson,
was impressed with the performance:



> 
> 
>  The diligence and professionalism of our conference organisers
>  continues to impress. The Debian Conference occupies an
>  increasingly important role for us, and if the attendees are the
>  lifeblood of its success, then the organisers are its heart,
>  getting everyone where they need to be.
> 
> 
> 
> 


### Acknowledgement


This Debian Conference was organised in collaboration with
Linux-Aktivaattori, the Helsinki University of Technology, and with
financial support from HP, Intel, Nokia, Linux Magazine, IBM,
SLX-Debian-Labs, NetApp, Movial, Hostway, Linspire, VA Linux
Systems Japan, O'Reilly, Progeny, Xandros, Damicon, Univention, Linux
Information Systems AG, COSS, Ubuntu, MySQL, credativ, Ropecon,
Helsinki Institute of Physics and CSC.


[Further information](https://www.debconf.org/debconf5/)


### About Debian


The Debian project is an organisation of many developers who volunteer
their time and effort, collaborating via the Internet. Their tasks
include maintaining and updating Debian GNU/Linux which is a free
distribution of the GNU/Linux operating system. Debian's dedication
to Free Software, its non-profit nature, and its open development
model makes it unique among GNU/Linux distributions.


### Contact Information


For further information, please send email to the Debian Press Team
[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org) or visit the [Debian homepage](https://www.debian.org/).



