
The Debian Project receives Funding
===================================


**August 13th, 2005**


The Debian project is pleased to announce that it is funded by the
LinuxFund with $500 per month for an entire year. The Linux-oriented
credit card organisation will be disbursing $6,000 in total. This
money will be given to the project as part of the mission of LinuxFund
to support Free Software projects.


This funding is greatly appreciated by the project and will be used
prudentially to continue building the universal operating system,
improve the distribution and foster Free Software. The Debian
project's expenses include hardware acquisition and sponsorship of its
developers' attendance at numerous technical conferences, including
the sixth annual Debian Developers' Conference in Espoo, Finland, last
month.


The Debian project maintains over forty machines that are used for
developing the distribution, maintaining the project's infrastructure
and providing both internal and external services.


Project Leader Branden Robinson observes that "this funding will not
only help us to be more flexible and reactive when dealing with the
inevitable hardware failures that crop up, but it should also enable
us to do a bit more forward planning. Debian runs entirely on
donations -- we sell no products or services -- and a steady,
predictable flow of revenue should help us feel comfortable with some
more long-range resource planning. LinuxFund deserves not just our
thanks, but credit for pioneering new funding models for the Free
Software community. They've set a great example, and I look forward
to seeing others follow it."


"LinuxFund funds projects of interest to the open source community,"
David Mandel, Executive Director, said. Mandel also praised the
Debian project as important project that is dedicated to openness.


About Debian
------------


The Debian project is an organisation of many developers and
contributors who volunteer their time and effort, collaborating via
the Internet. Their tasks include the maintenance and evolution of
Debian GNU/Linux, which is a free distribution of the GNU/Linux
operating system. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its
non-profit nature, and its independence from corporate control, and
its open development model make it unique among GNU/Linux
distributions.


About LinuxFund
---------------


The Linux Fund was founded in 1999 at the peak of the high-tech boom.
The basic idea was to market a Linux Fund credit card with a picture
of Tux, the Linux Penguin, and to use the proceeds to fund Free
Software.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.


For information on donating to Debian please see the [donation page](https://www.spi-inc.org/donations/) or contact
<treasurer@spi-inc.org>.



