
Sixth Annual Debian Conference
==============================


**July 5th, 2005**


The 6th annual Debian Conference will be held at the Computer Science
department of the Helsinki University of Technology in Espoo, Finland
from July 9th to July 17th 2005. Debian and Free Software developers
from countries around the world meet for a week-long series of
intensive development, seminars and workshops. It is highly technical
in nature.


The target audience is Debian developers, interested and sophisticated
Debian users. During the conference a number of attending developers
will give talks about particular topics about or otherwise affiliated
with Debian. The schedule will be published during the conference and
isn't fixed yet. There will also be several workshops, coding
parties, demonstrations and discussions.


[Details on DebConf](https://www.debian.org/events/2005/0710-debconf)


### Debian Day


The Debian Developers Conference starts with Debian Day, a one-day
conference aiming at the general public. This sub-conference will
take place at the Computer Science department of the Helsinki
University of Technology in Espoo, Finland. The schedule follows:




| **Debian Day Schedule -- Saturday, July 9th, 2005** |
| --- |
| 09:00 | **Greetings by Martin-Éric Racine, Andreas Schuldei, Branden Robinson** |
| 09:30 | Jaldhar H. Vyas | **What is Debian?** |
| 10:15 | Gunnar Wolf | **What is Free Software?** |
| 11:00 | Aigars Mahinovs | **Custom Debian distributions** |
| 11:45 | Juan Jose Amor | **A travel through Debian** |
| 12:00 | **Lunch Break** |
| 12:30 | Andreas Barth | **Debian release processes** |
| 14:00 | Dario Rapisardi and Pedro Pérez | **Debian in Extremadura** |
| 15:00 | Alexander Schmehl | **Helping Debian for end-user** |
| 15:45 | Martin-Éric Racine | **Developing software for Debian** |
| 16:30 | Bdale Garbee | **How HP benefits from Debian** |
| 17:30 | Q & A session | **Debian Project goals** |


[Details on Debian Day](https://www.debconf.org/debconf5/about/debianday)


### Acknowledgement


This year's Debian Conference is organised in collaboration with
Linux-Aktivaattori and the Helsinki University of Technology, along
with financial support from HP, Intel, Nokia, Linux Magazine, IBM,
SLX-Debian-Labs, Movial, NetApp, Hostway, Linspire, VA Linux Systems
Japan, O'Reilly, Progeny, Canonical, Xandros, Damicon, Univention,
Linux Information Systems AG, MySQL, credativ and Ropecon.


For more information, please contact


Martin-Éric Racine
  
debconf5-press@linux-aktivaattori.fi
  
+358-40-726 2737



