
The Debian Project mourns the loss of Jens Schmalzing
=====================================================


**August 9th, 2005**


The Debian Project has lost another member of its community. Jens
Schmalzing (jensen) died on July 30th in a tragic accident at his
workplace in Munich.


Jens was involved in Debian as a maintainer of several packages, as
supporter of the PowerPC port, as a member of the kernel team, and was
instrumental in taking the PowerPC kernel package to version 2.6. He
also maintained the Mac-on-Linux emulator and its kernel modules,
helped with the installer and with local Munich activities. The
kernel team dedicates the 2.6.12-2 release to him.


The Debian Project honours his good work and strong dedication to
Debian and Free Software. The contribution of Jens will not be
forgotten, and other developers will continue his work.


Jens will be missed. He left behind a wife and three children, who
have our sympathy.


About Debian
------------


The Debian project is an organisation of many developers who volunteer
their time and effort, collaborating via the Internet. Their tasks
include maintaining and updating Debian GNU/Linux which is a free
distribution of the GNU/Linux operating system. Debian's dedication
to Free Software, its non-profit nature, and its open development
model makes it unique among GNU/Linux distributions.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



