
Debian Project adds Security Support for AMD64
==============================================


**August 11th, 2005**


The Debian project adds security support for the stable amd64
distribution. This port is not yet part of the Debian archive, but it
will be included in unstable/testing soon and users already benefit
from security updates distributed via security.debian.org.


A special advisory will be released soon by the security team to cover
newly built amd64 packages for all security updates since the release
of sarge. These packages will replace already existing files in the
proposed-updates directory in the amd64 archive.


Because the project has released version 3.1 (codename: sarge) of its
distribution without the amd64 port due to technical reasons, the
porters have released their packages on a different server with only
minimal differences to the Debian 3.1 archive. This port will be
included in the unstable and testing distribution soon.


As a first step to adding full support for the amd64 port the
ftpmasters have added this architecture to security.debian.org and
connected a new build daemon to the archive. Future security
advisories will therefore list 12 architectures for the sarge release
and users of this port will be able to use the regular source for
security updates as well.


Future Plans for full AMD64 Support
-----------------------------------


Several issues have to be resolved before the amd64 port can be fully
included. Most importantly the ftpmaster service needs to be moved to
its final destination, as its former hosting offer has been terminated
and it is now hosted in a temporary location. A detailed list of
things to do follows:


1. Add security support
- Move ftpmaster to its final location
- Implement the archive split
- Add amd64 architecture
- Rebuild the archive with regards to amd64
- Eventually have full support for amd64


Resources for the AMD64 Port
----------------------------


* [Security Updates](http://security.debian.org/dists/stable/updates/)* [CD and DVD Images](https://cdimage.debian.org/cdimage/unofficial/sarge-amd64/)* [AMD64 Packages](http://amd64.debian.net/debian)* [AMD64 Mirror List](http://amd64.debian.net/README.mirrors.html)* [Differences to Debian 3.1](http://amd64.debian.net/docs/package_changes.txt)


About Debian
------------


The Debian project is an organisation of many developers who volunteer
their time and effort, collaborating via the Internet. Their tasks
include maintaining and updating Debian GNU/Linux which is a free
distribution of the GNU/Linux operating system. Debian's dedication
to Free Software, its non-profit nature, and its open development
model makes it unique among GNU/Linux distributions.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



