
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-3942-1 supervisor -- security update
----------------------------------------



Date Reported:
13 Aug 2017
Affected Packages:

[supervisor](https://packages.debian.org/src:supervisor)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In the Debian bugtracking system: [Bug 870187](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=870187).  
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2017-11610](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2017-11610).  

More information:

Calum Hutton reported that the XML-RPC server in supervisor, a system
for controlling process state, does not perform validation on requested
XML-RPC methods, allowing an authenticated client to send a malicious
XML-RPC request to supervisord that will run arbitrary shell commands on
the server as the same user as supervisord.


The vulnerability has been fixed by disabling nested namespace lookup
entirely. supervisord will now only call methods on the object
registered to handle XML-RPC requests and not any child objects it may
contain, possibly breaking existing setups. No publicly available
plugins are currently known that use nested namespaces. Plugins that use
a single namespace will continue to work as before. Details can be found
on the upstream issue at
<https://github.com/Supervisor/supervisor/issues/964> .


For the oldstable distribution (jessie), this problem has been fixed
in version 3.0r1-1+deb8u1.


For the stable distribution (stretch), this problem has been fixed in
version 3.3.1-1+deb9u1.


We recommend that you upgrade your supervisor packages.





