
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-2309-1 openssl -- compromised certificate authority
-------------------------------------------------------



Date Reported:
13 Sep 2011
Affected Packages:

[openssl](https://packages.debian.org/src:openssl)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2011-1945](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2011-1945).  

More information:

Several fraudulent SSL certificates have been found in the wild issued
by the DigiNotar Certificate Authority, obtained through a security
compromise of said company. After further updates on this incident, it
has been determined that all of DigiNotar's signing certificates can no
longer be trusted.
Debian, like other software distributors and vendors, has decided to
distrust all of DigiNotar's CAs. In this update, this is done in the
crypto library (a component of the OpenSSL toolkit) by marking such
certificates as revoked.
Any application that uses said component should now reject certificates
signed by DigiNotar. Individual applications may allow users to override
the validation failure. However, making exceptions is highly
discouraged and should be carefully verified.


Additionally, a vulnerability has been found in the ECDHE\_ECDS cipher
where timing attacks make it easier to determine private keys. The
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures project identifies it as
[CVE-2011-1945](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2011-1945).


For the oldstable distribution (lenny), these problems have been fixed in
version 0.9.8g-15+lenny12.


For the stable distribution (squeeze), these problems have been fixed in
version 0.9.8o-4squeeze2.


For the testing distribution (wheezy), these problems will be fixed soon.


For the unstable distribution (sid), these problems have been fixed in
version 1.0.0e-1.


We recommend that you upgrade your openssl packages.





