
Several donations boost reliability of Debian's core infrastructure
===================================================================


**October 3rd, 2016**



 Over the last several months,
 [Hewlett Packard Enterprise](http://www.hpe.com/engage/opensource) 
 (HPE), one of Debian's primary hardware partners, has made several
 large in-kind donations in support of Debian core services. The
 donated equipment will be deployed in the data centers of multiple
 hosting partners in Canada, the United States, and Australia.




 HPE's in-kind donations will allow Debian:



* to significantly enhance core service
 availability by deploying four HPE ProLiant BL460c
 Gen9 Server Blades (in enclosure) and an HPE MSA
 2040-based SAN at the University of British
 Columbia (UBC) in Vancouver.
* to refresh the primary archive infrastructure
 (ftp-master.debian.org) by replacing the
 machines hosted by Brown University with an
 HPE ProLiant DL380 Gen9 Server.
* to refresh the security mirror infrastructure
 (security.debian.org) by replacing the
 machines hosted by ANU, ISC and UMN with
 HPE ProLiant DL360 Gen9 Servers.



Hewlett Packard Enterprise relies on Debian's technologies
 for HPE Linux, a technology standard across the company,
 said Steve Geary, Senior Director at Hewlett Packard
 Enterprise. We're grateful the Debian project can use
 our hardware donation to further improve the reliability
 of its infrastructure.




HPE's generous donation of equipment will allow Debian
 to refresh the servers that underpin a number of our core
 services, explained Luca Filipozzi, member of the Debian
 System Administration (DSA) team.




 The donation of an enclosure, blade servers, and
 a SAN will allow DSA to build a virtual machine
 hosting environment at UBC (CA) that is functionally equivalent
 to the environment that Debian already has in place
 in the UK. HPE's hardware donation enables Debian
 to achieve the high-availability, geographic redundancy,
 and partner independence in our services that our project
 colleagues demand and that our users have come to expect.




 The refresh of the infrastructure underlying
 ftp-master.debian.org and security.debian.org
 is vital to ensure that the project is able
 to produce and maintain the Debian operating
 system. The former is an integral component
 of Debian's automated build environment, used
 daily by project members for package maintenance
 activities; while the latter is a critical
 service for our users as it provides the
 vehicle by which security updates are
 made available to them.




 It is only through the donation of volunteer
 effort, in-kind equipment and services, and
 funding that Debian is able to deliver on our
 commitment to a free operating system. We
 are very appreciative of HPE's generosity.



About Debian
------------



 The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock
 to be a truly free community project. Since then the
 project has grown to be one of the largest and most
 influential open source projects. Thousands of
 volunteers from all over the world work together to
 create and maintain Debian software. Available in 70
 languages, and supporting a huge range of computer
 types, Debian calls itself the universal operating
 system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)>.



