
Debian Project wishes to thank Mythic Beasts for loaned hardware
================================================================


**May 13th, 2016**


Debian regularly produces many variations of installation CDs, DVDs, and live or
cloud images for its users. We are due to upgrade soon to a new central build
machine for image production to make the most of the latest CPU and storage
technologies.


Tuning the hardware and software configuration of a large build machine can
be tricky, and buying the wrong equipment can be a costly mistake in terms of
finance and administration time.


To help with this, the friendly people at Mythic Beasts loaned the project
a large build machine configured with 12 cores, 256 GB RAM, multiple disks,
SSDs and NVMe storage. Using this machine, we were able to evaluate various
possible configurations for image building to ensure we purchased the right
equipment with the most value for our needs.


Steve McIntyre, who worked with the equipment, stated, We wanted to optimise our
image build performance in two ways. First, the working filesystem used for
input could be stored on disk, on SSD or pre-cached in memory. Secondly, the
output data could be stored on either disk or SSD.


Several weeks of benchmarking told us that the best option was simple: using SSD
for the working filesystem. Pre-caching in RAM didn't make a noticeable
difference; the Linux VM system is clearly already very effective for using
RAM cache here. The effect of the output filesystem was almost negligible in
all the tests; tests using SSD here were no faster than disk, suggesting
the input data was the limiting factor.


This data will allow us to effectively tune our next build server for best
results.


We are very grateful to the lovely folks at Mythic Beasts for letting us use one
of their large machines in this way!


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



About Mythic Beasts
-------------------


Mythic Beasts (https://www.mythic-beasts.com/) is a privately owned hosting ISP
with a focus on a no-nonsense service backed by excellent technical support.
They have been hosting and supporting Debian VMs for years.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



