
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-2993-1 tor -- security update
---------------------------------



Date Reported:
31 Jul 2014
Affected Packages:

[tor](https://packages.debian.org/src:tor)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2014-5117](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2014-5117).  

More information:

Several issues have been discovered in Tor, a connection-based
low-latency anonymous communication system, resulting in information
leaks.


* Relay-early cells could be used by colluding relays on the network to
 tag user circuits and so deploy traffic confirmation attacks
 [[CVE-2014-5117](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2014-5117)]. The updated version emits a warning and drops the
 circuit upon receiving inbound relay-early cells, preventing this
 specific kind of attack. Please consult the following advisory for
 more details about this issue:


<https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-security-advisory-relay-early-traffic-confirmation-attack>
* A bug in the bounds-checking in the 32-bit curve25519-donna
 implementation could cause incorrect results on 32-bit
 implementations when certain malformed inputs were used along with a
 small class of private ntor keys. This flaw does not currently
 appear to allow an attacker to learn private keys or impersonate a
 Tor server, but it could provide a means to distinguish 32-bit Tor
 implementations from 64-bit Tor implementations.


The following additional security-related improvements have been
implemented:


* As a client, the new version will effectively stop using CREATE\_FAST
 cells. While this adds computational load on the network, this
 approach can improve security on connections where Tor's circuit
 handshake is stronger than the available TLS connection security
 levels.
* Prepare clients to use fewer entry guards by honoring the consensus
 parameters. The following article provides some background:


<https://blog.torproject.org/blog/improving-tors-anonymity-changing-guard-parameters>


For the stable distribution (wheezy), these problems have been fixed in
version 0.2.4.23-1~deb7u1.


For the testing distribution (jessie) and the unstable distribution
(sid), these problems have been fixed in version 0.2.4.23-1.


For the experimental distribution, these problems have been fixed in
version 0.2.5.6-alpha-1.


We recommend that you upgrade your tor packages.





