
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-2907-1 -- announcement of long term support for Debian oldstable
--------------------------------------------------------------------



Date Reported:
16 Apr 2014
Affected Packages:



Vulnerable:
No
Security database references:
No other external database security references currently available.
More information:


This is an advance notice that regular security support for Debian
GNU/Linux 6.0 (code name squeeze) will be terminated on the 31st of
May.




However, we're happy to announce that security support for squeeze is
going to be extended until February 2016, i.e. five years after the
initial release. This effort is driven by various interested parties /
companies which require longer security support. See the LTS section
of [the initial announcement](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2014/03/msg00004.html).




The details are currently being sorted out and a more detailed
announcement will be made soon.




Brief advance FAQ (but you should really wait for the more detailed
announcement):




**What's the difference between regular security support and the LTS
 support?**
squeeze-lts is only going to support i386 and amd64. If you're
 running a different architecture you need to upgrade to Debian 7
 (wheezy). Also there are going to be a few packages which will not
 be supported in squeeze-lts (e.g. a few web-based applications
 which cannot be supported for five years). There will be a tool to
 detect such unsupported packages.
**Does this mean that Debian 7 (wheezy) and/or Debian 8 (jessie) will
 have five years security support as well?**
Likely, we'll see how squeeze-lts turns out. If there's sufficient
 support it will be continued for later releases as well. Also, see
 below.
**Is additional help needed?**
Absolutely. squeeze-lts is not handled by the Debian security team,
 but by a separate group of volunteers and companies interested in
 making it a success (with some overlap in people involved). So, if
 you're a company using Debian and seeing a benefit in security
 support for five years, get in touch with team@security.debian.org
 and we'll see how you can help (if you e.g. don't have the manpower /
 know how but are willing to contribute, we can point you to a list
 of Debian consultants)




