
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-2857-1 libspring-java -- several vulnerabilities
----------------------------------------------------



Date Reported:
08 Feb 2014
Affected Packages:

[libspring-java](https://packages.debian.org/src:libspring-java)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2013-6429](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2013-6429), [CVE-2013-6430](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2013-6430).  

More information:

It was discovered by the Spring development team that the fix for the
XML External Entity (XXE) Injection
([CVE-2013-4152](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2013-4152)) in the Spring Framework was incomplete.


Spring MVC's SourceHttpMessageConverter also processed user provided XML
and neither disabled XML external entities nor provided an option to
disable them. SourceHttpMessageConverter has been modified to provide an
option to control the processing of XML external entities and that
processing is now disabled by default.


In addition Jon Passki discovered a possible XSS vulnerability:
The JavaScriptUtils.javaScriptEscape() method did not escape all
characters that are sensitive within either a JS single quoted string,
JS double quoted string, or HTML script data context. In most cases this
will result in an unexploitable parse error but in some cases it could
result in an XSS vulnerability.


For the stable distribution (wheezy), these problems have been fixed in
version 3.0.6.RELEASE-6+deb7u2.


For the testing distribution (jessie), these problems have been fixed in
version 3.0.6.RELEASE-11.


For the unstable distribution (sid), these problems have been fixed in
version 3.0.6.RELEASE-11.


We recommend that you upgrade your libspring-java packages.





