
Debian Expo and Conference Week
===============================


**June 30th, 2001**


The upcoming week is going to be a busy one for the Debian Project.
We are going to be present on four exhibitions and conferences taking
place in the coming days, in France, the United Kingdom, Germany, and
Mexico.
We invite all interested people in the respective areas to attend
these events, meet Debian developers and users, exchange GnuPG
fingerprints, discuss Debian and Free Software, and otherwise
participate in our vibrant community.
Monday - Thursday
  


[Debian Conference 1 (Bordeaux, France)](https://www.debian.org/events/2001/0704-debcon)


Debian Conference 1 is part of the Libre Software Meeting (LSM),
 an event where virtual organizations or "enterprises" engaged in
 Free Software development and support that ordinarily coordinate
 themselves via the Internet are given the opportunity to gather
 physically.
 Excerpts from the schedule:
 Tuesday, 3rd
   



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 10:00 - 11:30 | Debian Quality Assurance by Martin Michlmayr |
| 15:00 - 17:00 | Fully Automatic Installation by Thomas Lange |


Wednesday, 4th
   



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 10:00 - 11:30 | Debian OpenBSD by Andreas Schuldei |
| 15:00 - 17:00 | HURD by Marcus Brinkmann |


Thursday, 5th
   



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 09:00 - 10:00 | Telemetry Box by Christoph Lameter |
| 10:30 - 12:00 | Port of Debian to HP PA-RISC by Xavier Debacker |













Wednesday - Thursday
  


[UK Linux Expo 2001 (London, United Kingdom)](https://www.debian.org/events/2001/0704-linuxexpo)


Debian will be present at a booth within the ".ORG" stand, which
 is being provided free of charge by the organisers.



Thursday - Sunday
  


[LinuxTag 2001 (Stuttgart, Germany)](https://www.debian.org/events/2001/0705-linuxtag)


Debian will be present at a booth located in the middle of the
 regular exhibition floor, alongside traditional companies' booths.
 We are planning a demonstration of Debian GNU/Linux running on as
 many architectures as possible: there will be machines for nine
 different architectures on the booth (alpha, hppa, i386, m68k, mips,
 mipsel, powerpc, sparc and sh), as well as an emulation of a tenth one
 (IBM S/390).
 On Sunday, Martin 'Joey' Schulze will give a general talk about
 Debian.
 In addition to these two events, the Debian Project has organized
 a one-day conference program, called "Debian Day". It aims at
 developers and advanced users. Debian Day will take place on
 Friday, July 6th. The schedule follows:
 Friday, 6th
   



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 10:00 - 11:00 | Debian Security by Alexander Reelsen |
| 11:00 - 12:00 | Debian in Business by Michael Meskes |
| 12:00 - 13:00 | Quality Assurance by Martin Michlmayr |
| 13:00 - 14:00 | Package Maintenance by Michael Bramer |
| 14:00 - 15:00 | Debian on S/390 by Richard Higson |
| 15:00 - 16:00 | Debconf Tutorial by Michael Bramer |
| 16:00 - 17:00 | The Magic of rsync by Goswin Brederlow |
| 17:00 - 18:00 | Discussion and Keysigning |













Friday - Sunday
  


[CompuVenta 2001 Mexico (Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico)](https://www.debian.org/events/2001/0706-compuventa)


The CompuVenta is a national exhibition and conference in Jalisco,
 Mexico. Debian will be presented on several architectures at a
 booth and Thomas Bliesener will give a speech as an introduction to
 Free Software and the Debian Project.



It is an exciting week to be a member of the Debian Project; if you
would like to find out more about Debian, the events of the coming
week should provide excellent opportunities to do so.















