
Debian based Telemetry Box Distribution released
================================================


**January 25th, 2001**


Version 1.0 of the Telemetry Box Distribution has finally been
released. The Tbox distribution is a Debian GNU/Linux 'potato' based
custom Linux version for remote monitoring and maintenance of networks.
A telemetry box allows remote management and diagnostics. It uses a
customized version of netsaint to gather data. Netsaint has been
enhanced so that the configuration is possible via the Tbox
Webinterface through SQL structures. Netsaint logs into a SQL table.
Tools on the Tbox can then display the data in a variety of ways
(graphs or reports).
Some of the functionality of the Tbox:
* Discovery module (Scan network and write results to SQL database)
 * Ticket System (Can be hooked into siteROCKs problem tracking system).
 * PathFinder (Network infrastructure analysis and troubleshooting module
 written by me. Tested with monitoring all network paths to all
 educational institutions (edu.zone) for a week (30000 IPs)).
 * Apache/PHP/MySQL/PHPMyadmin
 * Fully manageable via a webinterface. All major setup can be done
 via the Web.
 * SSH/HTTPS support out of the box.
 * Easy installation (network card detection, auto-partitioning and
 formatting, no useless questions asked) of Debian usable without
 any Unix know-how.
 * NT Diagnostic module (NSServicer)
 * Keynote data integration
 * Modified CURL tool that works as a URL analyzer for netsaint.
 * Report module: Performance data. Router data and graphical reports.
 * Intelligent ticket system (can localize point of network failure and
 asses impact of the failure)


### Installation from CD Image


It is highly advisable to install from a CD image. The
[CD image](http://telemetrybox.org/index.php?mode=regform) fits on a
Credit Card sized CD (only 50 MB) and contains all functionality. I will
have these CDs physically available at the LWE in Europe at the beginning of
February.
The telemetry software can be installed as an add on to existing Debian
installations but it requires modifications to apache and/or PHP. See
<http://telemetrybox.org/> for details.
### Open source contributions


Sources are available from <http://telemetrybox.org/tbox/source/>.
Patches to existing software have been or will be contributed to the
respective open source projects.
openrock.net has been outfitted with a kernel based http server (with
patches implementing range and virtual hosting). Downloading should be
no problem.
Note that we do not consider this version to be of production quality.
Some features are only working under certain conditions. Some
components have a prototype character. There are various issues that
are being improved on. Help would be appreciated. Ideally we would
like to have everything part of standard Debian. The biggest problem
was the ease of installation and handling which required some changes
to packages which might not be welcome.
[siteROCK](http://www.siterock.com), the specialists for 24x7
monitoring, made this release possible.
This article was submitted by Christoph Lameter <christoph@lameter.com>.





















