
Registration open for DebConf12
===============================


**April 12th, 2012**



The Debian Project is pleased to announce that registration is now open
for DebConf12, which will take place in Managua, Nicaragua, from Sunday 8
July to Saturday 14 July 2012.
The conference will be preceded as usual by one week of DebCamp, from
Sunday 1 July to Saturday 7 July.




As previous years, three different registration options will be
available: Sponsored, Professional and Corporate.
Through the Sponsored category, the Debian Project intend to help
some people attend who would not be able to pay for their own travel to
DebConf.
The Corporate category, with a USD 1300 (EUR 1000) registration
fee is intended for those attending DebConf as representatives of
companies.
The Professional category, with a USD 650 (EUR 500) registration
fee, is intended for any individual or company who wants to help
the conference by paying the direct costs of their attendence.



It will only be possible to apply for food and accommodation grants
and/or travel grants until 15 May.
For more detailed information about how to register, please see the [separate
announcement from the DebConf team](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2012/04/msg00002.html).



Airline discount
----------------



The DebConf team has arranged an airfare discount for attendees with
SkyTeam through their Global Meetings program. The discount is available
on most SkyTeam airlines for travel from 26 June until 20 July to and
from the Managua, Nicaragua, airport (MGA) for the purpose of attending
DebConf12.
To see what SkyTeam Global Meetings can offer for your DebConf12
travel needs, go to <http://www.skyteam.com/GlobalMeetings>
and enter Event ID 2254S.



Call for papers
---------------



Debian invites submissions of proposals for papers, presentations,
discussion sessions and tutorials for its DebConf12 conference.
Submissions are not limited to traditional talks: you could propose a
performance, art installation, debate, or anything else. Official
submissions will be accepted until 1 June 2012, 23:59 UTC.
  

This year, we will continue to organize some talks into thematic
tracks. If you have a proposal for a DebConf track, please contact
[debconf-team@lists.debconf.org](mailto:debconf-team@lists.debconf.org).
Previous examples included Debian Science, Debian
Infrastructure, and Community Outreach tracks.
If you would like to be a track coordinator, please volunteer on that
list.
Detailed information on how to submit an event are available on the [mail
from the DebConf team](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2012/04/msg00003.html).



About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in various locations over the world.
If you are interested in helping by working as a volunteer during
DebConf, please contact [debconf-team@lists.debconf.org](mailto:debconf-team@lists.debconf.org)
  

If you or your company are interested in sponsoring DebConf by
donating money or lending equipment, please contact the sponsorship
team at [sponsors@debconf.org](mailto:sponsors@debconf.org).
  

More information about DebConf12 can be found on the [conference website](https://debconf12.debconf.org/).
About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.





