
Make DebConf12 a success: donate or become a sponsor
====================================================


**March 3rd, 2012**


The Debian Project's annual conference is slowly coming closer.
Visiting places around the world since 2000, DebConf will take place
this year in Managua, Nicaragua, in July and will again provide an
opportunity for people who contribute to Debian to meet in person for
face-to-face collaboration and discussions. 


At DebConf we try to bring together as many Debian contributors as
possible, including those who could not afford to attend from their
own resources. You can help make DebConf12 a success by your
organisation becoming a sponsor, or by donating money as an
individual.


[Individual
donations](https://debconf12.debconf.org/payments.xhtml) can be made online in either US dollars or euros.


If you are interested in becoming a sponsor, you can find more
information about DebConf12 [sponsor
page](https://debconf12.debconf.org/become-sponsor.xhtml) or directly contact <[sponsors@debconf.org](mailto:sponsors@debconf.org)>.


In addition to monetary donations, sponsorship can be provided in
the form of in-kind donations, or by lending equipment for the
conference period.


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Scotland, Argentina, and
Bosnia and Herzegovina. More information about DebConf is available from
<https://debconf.org>.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



