
Switzerland to host Debian Conference 2013
==========================================


**March 1st, 2012**


On February 20, 2012, the DebConf committee decided that DebConf13, the Debian
developer conference of 2013, should take place on the shores of the
Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland, most likely in the middle of August.
More details may be found on the
[organizers' wiki](http://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf13/Switzerland/Bid).


In a two hour meeting on Monday evening, the Swiss bid
narrowly won over the bid from Riga, Latvia. Teams had been
preparing their bids since mid-2011, seeking venues and local sponsors in
their respective cities and countries. 


The two bids both had character and unique identities. On the one hand, the
Riga proposal was totally centered on city and university life. On the
other hand, the Swiss bid aimed to bring DebConf to a setting that is
known for its natural beauty.


Our proposal strongly focuses on the community
gathering aspect of DebConf. Accommodation, hacking spaces and talk rooms
will be at the same place with a beautiful view over the Lake
Neuchatel and to Swiss alps. We'll have the whole holiday camp
exclusively for DebConf, said Gaudenz Steinlin, member of the Swiss
team.


The DebConf organizers congratulate the future organizers of DebConf13,
and thank both teams for their efforts.


The venue decision for DebConf14 will be made in approximately twelve
months. Proposals should be submitted by 31 December 2012 to be eligible for
consideration.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a
full schedule of technical, social, and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors, and other interested people to
meet in person and work together more closely. It has taken place
annually since 2000 in locations as varied as Scotland, Argentina, and
Bosnia and Herzegovina. More information about DebConf is available from
<https://debconf.org>.


This year, DebConf12 starts on Sunday 8 July, and ends Saturday 14 July
2012. The conference will be held in Managua, Nicaragua.


DebConf will be preceded by DebCamp, from Sunday 1 July to Saturday 7
July 2012. DebCamp is a smaller, less formal event giving an opportunity
for group work on Debian projects.


On Saturday 7 July 2012, DebConf Open Day will take place at the site. The
Open Day is a short conference aimed at Debian users, and others interested
in learning more about free software.


More information about DebConf12 can be found on the
[conference website](https://debconf12.debconf.org/).


About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



