
Debian Project reelects Stefano Zacchiroli as Project Leader
============================================================


**April 15th, 2012**



In accordance with its
[constitution](https://www.debian.org/devel/constitution),
the Debian Project has just reelected Stefano Zacchiroli
for a third year as Debian Project Leader. More than 80% of voters
put him as their first choice (or equal first) on their ballot papers.
This is the first time in the history of the project that a candidate
wins in three consecutive years.




Stefano's large majority over his opponents shows how satisfied the Debian
project is with his work so far, and its wish for him to
represent the project during one last term — Stefano has already
announced he won't be seeking reelection again next year.
Wouter Verhelst and Gergely Nagy also gained a lot of support from
Debian project members, both coming hundreds of votes ahead of the
None of the above ballot choice.




Stefano has been a Debian Developer since March 2001 and was a long-term
contributor to several core services such as Debian's Package Tracking
System and its Quality Assurance Team. He became Debian Project Leader
in 2010, then in 2011 was reelected unopposed. After it was announced
that he had won this year's election, Stefano said: I'm flattered by
the trust that Debian members have put in me in the past, and now renewed
with this election. I've a lot of admiration for democratic processes,
and I couldn't be happier to have been chosen to serve as DPL for another
year. I suspect my agenda for the year will be quite packed and, in
parallel, I'll do my best to make myself replaceable. 



Debian uses the Condorcet voting method for project leader elections.
The detailed election results can be found at the [voting page](https://www.debian.org/vote/2012/vote_001).



About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



