
New machine for Debian archive main mirror
==========================================


**February 18th, 2012**



The Debian Project is pleased to announce that the hardware behind
ftp.debian.org has recently been replaced, with the help of
*Studenten Net Twente (SNT)* and *HP*.
The new machine is an 8-core Intel Xeon machine with 48 GB of memory and a
total of 6 TB (on RAID 10) of local storage. The new server is generously
hosted by [Studenten Net Twente](http://www.snt.utwente.nl/)
at the University of Twente, which was already hosting the old
ftp.debian.org machine.




The amount of new architectures added to Debian recently and the fact
that we now also provide support for non-Linux operating system kernels
caused us to run short on disk space on the old machine. This new machine
should give us enough space for a few years said Martin Zobel-Helas,
a member of the Debian System Administrator team. Hosting Debian hardware
at University of Twente has a long tradition for the Debian Project.,
Martin added.




At SNT, our slogan is making the net work! and that's exactly what
we're doing by providing Debian with extra hosting and bandwidth in the
Netherlands. SNT has been using Debian since 1996 for all of its network
managing servers and other services and therefore we kindly host kassia,
the Dutch FTP archive (ftp.nl.debian.org) and now this new server
klecker says Tjerk Jan from SNT.


About Studenten Net Twente
--------------------------



[Studenten Net Twente](http://www.snt.utwente.nl/) was
created in 1994 to handle network facilities provided by ICTS (the IT
service of the University of Twente) including ADSL, campusnet, WLAN,
VPN and dialup connections to the university. Thanks to the expertise of
the students manning the helpdesk they manage to offer support to all
network-related problems of students at the University of Twente.
SNT maintains an FTP mirror for major free and open source projects such as Firefox
and Debian, and an IRC server. It also offers colocation and web hosting
to student associations and other organisations on campus. All these
services are maintained by a group of volunteers who use this experience
to broaden their knowledge.



About Debian
------------



The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of
the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world work together to create and
maintain Debian software. Available in 70 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.



Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



