
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-4078-1 linux -- security update
-----------------------------------



Date Reported:
04 Jan 2018
Affected Packages:

[linux](https://packages.debian.org/src:linux)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2017-5754](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2017-5754).  

More information:

Multiple researchers have discovered a vulnerability in Intel processors,
enabling an attacker controlling an unprivileged process to read memory from
arbitrary addresses, including from the kernel and all other processes running
on the system.


This specific attack has been named Meltdown and is addressed in the Linux
kernel for the Intel x86-64 architecture by a patch set named Kernel Page Table
Isolation, enforcing a near complete separation of the kernel and userspace
address maps and preventing the attack. This solution might have a performance
impact, and can be disabled at boot time by passing `pti=off` to the
kernel command line.


We also identified a regression for ancient userspaces using the vsyscall
interface, for example chroot and containers using (e)glibc 2.13 and older,
including those based on Debian 7 or RHEL/CentOS 6. This regression will be
fixed in a later update.


The other vulnerabilities (named Spectre) published at the same time are not
addressed in this update and will be fixed in a later update.


For the oldstable distribution (jessie), this problem will be fixed in a
separate update.


For the stable distribution (stretch), this problem has been fixed in
version 4.9.65-3+deb9u2.


We recommend that you upgrade your linux packages.


For the detailed security status of linux please refer to
its security tracker page at:
<https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/linux>





