
Security Support for Debian 3.1 to be terminated
================================================


**February 29th, 2008**


Security Support for Debian GNU/Linux 3.1 to be terminated on March 31st
------------------------------------------------------------------------


One year after the release of Debian GNU/Linux 4.0 alias etch and
nearly three years after the release of Debian GNU/Linux 3.1 alias
sarge the security support for the old distribution (3.1 alias
sarge) is coming to an end next month. The Debian project is proud
to be able to support its old distribution for such a long time and
even for one year after a new version has been released.


The Debian project released Debian GNU/Linux 4.0 alias etch on
the 8th of April 2007. Users and Distributors have been given a
one-year timeframe to upgrade their old installations to the current
stable release. Hence, the security support for the old release of
3.1 is going to end in March 2008 as previously announced.


Previously announced security updates for the old release will continue
to be available on security.debian.org.


Security Updates
----------------


The Debian Security Team provides security updates for the current
distribution via <<http://security.debian.org/>>. Security updates for the
old distribution are also provided for one year after the new
distribution has been released or until the current distribution is
superseded, whatever happens first.


About Debian
------------


Debian GNU/Linux is a free operating system, developed by more than
thousand volunteers from all over the world who collaborate via the
Internet. Debian's dedication to Free Software, its non-profit nature,
and its open development model make it unique among GNU/Linux
distributions.


The Debian project's key strengths are its volunteer base, its dedication
to the Debian Social Contract, and its commitment to provide the best
operating system possible. Debian 4.0 is another important step in that
direction.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<press@debian.org>.



