
Debian mourns the loss of Thiemo Seufer
=======================================


**December 29th, 2008**


The Debian Project has lost an active member of its community. Thiemo
Seufer died on December 26th in a tragic car accident.


Thiemo was involved in Debian in many ways. He has maintained several
packages and was the main supporter of the Debian port to the MIPS
architectures. He was also a member of our kernel team, as well as a
member of the Debian Installer team. His contributions reached far
beyond the Debian project. He also worked on the MIPS port of the
Linux kernel, the MIPS emulation of qemu, and far too many smaller
projects to be named here.


Thiemo's work, dedication, broad technical knowledge and ability to share
this with others will be missed. The contributions of Thiemo will not be
forgotten. The high standards of Thiemos work make it hard to pick up.


To honour his contributions to Debian, the project decided to dedicate
the upcoming release of Debian GNU/Linux 5.0 Lenny to Thiemo.


The funeral service will be held on Monday January 5th 2009, 13:30 at
the Dominikanerkirche in Bad Wimpfen. If you want to express your
condolences please send mail to ths-condolence@linutronix.de . It will
be passed on to Thiemo's family.


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project is an association of Free Software developers who
volunteer their time and effort in order to produce the completely free
operating system Debian GNU/Linux.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at
<https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)>.



