
DebConf 9 to take place in Extremadura, Spain in July 2009
==========================================================


**December 12th, 2008**


* Annual Debian conference to take place 23 - 30 July 2009
* Hosted in UNESCO World Heritage city Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain
* General public invited to open conference day Saturday, 25 July
* Call for papers, registration to open in January 2009


Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain, 12 December 2008 - The Debian Project,
the team behind the free Debian GNU/Linux operating system,
confirmed the dates and venue for its next annual conference,
DebConf 9.


The conference will take place from 23 to 30 July 2009 at the
Complejo Cultural San Francisco in the UNESCO World Heritage city
Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain. Venue and accommodation for many
participants will be sponsored by the government of Extremadura.


The government of Extremadura is very supportive of free software,
says César Gómez Martín, one of the local organisers, and government
member. In addition to our gnuLinEx initiative, a complete computer
software solution for all Extremadura schools and official
institutions built on Debian, we are keen to support free software
projects and events. We are happy to sponsor DebConf, and excited to
bring the conference to the beautiful city of Cáceres.


On Saturday, 25 July, the conference opens its doors to host talks
and presentations geared at the general public. Developers and users
will be on site to answer questions.


The call for papers and registration will open in January 2009.


DebConf 9 will be preceeded by developer work sessions starting 16
July.


About Debian
------------


Debian GNU/Linux is a free computer operating system. Over three
thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to create
and maintain Debian software. Translated into 27 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the annual Debian conference, which has taken place since
2000 in places as varied as Canada, Finland, and Mexico. Several hundred
developers, contributors, and users gather each year at a new location to
further ideas, cooperate, and socialise. More information about DebConf
is available from [https://debconf.org.](https://debconf.org/)


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the DebConf web pages at <https://www.debconf.org/>, send mail to <[press@debconf.org](mailto:press%40debian.org)> or call Martin Krafft
at +41 32 5119511 (also speaks German) or Sebastian Montini at +54 223 155
560020 (also speaks Spanish).



