
Debian Weekly News - April 15th, 2003
=====================================


Welcome to this year's 15th issue of DWN, the weekly newsletter for the
Debian community. Watch your machines people, because if you don't, bad
things can happen. If you notice a burning smell, check your power supply for
[loitering](http://h.arqz.com/broachfan.jpg) dragonfly brooches as
Hugh Saunders [experienced](https://lists.debian.org/debian-curiosa-0303/msg00008.html).


**Libcupsys2 Splitting.** Jeff Licquia [announced](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00581.html)
that following a grave bug filed against `libcupsys2`, he has
built the `libcupsimage` libraries and header files as separate
"`libcupsimage2{-dev}`" packages (as of version 1.1.18-3). Although it
was technically [possible](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00617.html)
to address the bug by splitting only the `-dev` packages, Jeff had
other [good
reasons](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00645.html) and also generally prefers not to have `foo-dev`
packages without corresponding `foo` packages.


**Debian Popularity Contest Web Pages.** Bill Allombert [thought](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00607.html)
the Debian [Popularity
Contest](https://people.debian.org/~apenwarr/popcon/) was a good idea, but wondered if it could be improved. The
Popularity Contest uses anonymised data gathered from users who install the
`popularity-contest` package to find out which packages are most
popular. Igor Genibel [advised](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00609.html)
that he is integrating the Popularity Contest information into the [Debian Developer's Packages
Overview](https://qa.debian.org/developer.php). The Popularity Contest maintainer, Avery Pennarun, [said](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00632.html)
that each week the number of user submissions increases, but he does not have
time to improve the system.


**New Debian Menu System proposed.** Enrico Zini [thought](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00800.html)
that Debian's current desktop menu system needs some redesign to keep up and
integrate with the other existing systems. He proposes that Debian switches to
the format of the [Desktop Menu Specification](http://www.freedesktop.org/standards/menu/draft/menu-spec/menu-spec.html) for desktop entries, and that Debian continues to provide
menu information for applications that do not have their own. Colin Walters,
who maintains the [Debian Desktop](https://www.debian.org/devel/debian-desktop/)
subproject, gave his backing to the proposal.


**Information Law Training for Debian Developers.** James
Miller has been teaching an online course in information law at Southeastern
University. He is [considering](https://lists.debian.org/debian-legal-0304/msg00126.html)
offering the course to interested Debian Developers. The course is
demanding but gives those in computer science and information technology
fields an understanding of the sources of law in the U.S., the major
substantive areas of law, and issues of intellectual property. Students
could apply that knowledge to regulatory infrastructures and the internet,
privacy, and security. James envisages having 10-15 students in the course,
however there is currently a need to buy an expensive textbook.


**Removal of orphaned Packages.** Martin Michlmayr [announced](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce-0304/msg00005.html) that he intends to request the removal of several packages in
two weeks time, since they have been on the [Work
Needed and Prospective Packages](https://www.debian.org/devel/wnpp/) list for a long time. These packages are
not maintained in Debian anymore and contain release-critical bugs. If anyone
wants to keep one these packages they should ensure they follow the steps Martin
has outlined. This issue is being discussed on [debian-devel](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00872.html).


**Status of the m68k Port.** Marco d'Itri [asked](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00355.html)
whether the m68k architecture is currently in a state ready for release, after
he spent quite a while figuring out why Mutt doesn't build on this architecture
anymore. Wouter Verhelst [explained](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00432.html)
that some of the buildds failed recently and that there were severe problems
with the toolchain, which were fixed recently, with kudos to Matthias Klose.


**Categories or Sections?** Erich Schubert [announced](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0303/msg01371.html) a
new version of his [Package Browser](http://debian.vitavonni.de/packagebrowser/) that intends to help categorise Debian packages. This
should improve browsing packages through hierarchical categories instead of
sections as he earlier [proposed](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0111/msg00253.html).
Mark Howard [considered](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00451.html)
freshmeat style trove categorisation is a quite interesting idea. However
this would be problematic for the existing tools.


**Debian User Analysis.** Enrico Zini [posted](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00503.html) a
document about user analysis as part of usability improvements. He saw many
practical proposals about Debian improvements, but rarely saw them backed with
an analysis identifying the needs and the goals that they are supposed to
address. He identified four types of interesting information to gather.
Understanding users expectations should help us understand the usability problems.


**Debian for x86-64?** Daniel Whelan is [interested](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00700.html)
in a port to the Opteron processor (x86-64) from AMD and wondered about the
status of this port. Michael Banck [said](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00723.html) we
would have to sign a non-disclosure agreement to get access to hardware, and
Adam Conrad [reported](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00711.html)
that [SuSE](http://www.suse.com/) has already done the groundwork
with kernel and glibc. Masanori Goto (後藤 正徳) [added](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-0304/msg00726.html) that
this architecture is capable of running 64- and 32-bit programs, requiring
special considerations.


**Debian NetBSD for Sparc.** Matthew Garrett [demonstrated](https://lists.debian.org/debian-bsd-0304/msg00001.html)
his success in building a Debian system on the Sparc architecture on top of the
[NetBSD](http://www.netbsd.org/) kernel. Additionally Joel Baker
[reported](https://lists.debian.org/debian-bsd-0303/msg00009.html)
about significant work for the NetBSD/x86 port, such as dpkg and APT, that
will work without additional patches.


**Debian-Gentoo Collaboration on Hurd?** Robert Millan [suggested](https://lists.debian.org/debian-hurd-0303/msg00125.html)
that Debian and Gentoo porters for the Hurd work together closely. Both share
the same goal, to port a lot of Free Software. Many patches for applications
were reported through the Debian [bugtracking
system](https://www.debian.org/Bugs/) and applied either in the Debian package or upstream.


**Alioth Updated.** Wichert Akkerman [reported](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce-0304/msg00006.html) that [alioth](https://alioth.debian.org/) was changed
to GForge, partly due to a request from [VA Software](http://www.vasoftware.com/) not to use their logo and
name. This change had already been planned for a later date however the work
caused some unforeseen problems that are being resolved. If you discover any other problems,
please do not hesitate to file a support request using the support request
[tracker](https://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?group_id=1) for the [siteadmin](https://alioth.debian.org/projects/siteadmin/)
project.


**New SPI Board Members elected.** Branden Robinson [announced](http://lists.spi-inc.org/pipermail/spi-announce/2003/000051.html) that Bruce Perens, John Goerzen, and Benjamin "Mako" Hill have
been appointed to the [Board
of Directors](https://www.spi-inc.org/corporate/board/) of [Software in the Public
Interest, Inc.](https://www.spi-inc.org/) (SPI), as of 11 March 2003. This action recognizes and
implements the outcome of the recent election. The board now consists of 10
people and should be in a proper state for meetings again.


**Security Updates.** You know the drill. Please make sure
that you update your systems if you have any of these packages installed.


* [glibc](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-282) --
 Arbitrary code execution.
* [xfsdump](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-283) --
 Insecure file creation.
* [kdegraphics](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-284) --
 Arbitrary command execution.
* [lprng](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-285) --
 Insecure temporary file creation.
* [gs-common](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-286) --
 Insecure temporary file creation.
* [epic](https://www.debian.org/security/2003/dsa-287) --
 DoS and arbitrary code execution.


**New or Noteworthy Packages.** The following packages were
added to the unstable Debian archive recently or contain important updates.


* [ara](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/utils/ara)
 -- Utility for queries on the Debian package database.
* [aspell-sv](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/text/aspell-sv)
 -- The Swedish dictionary for GNU aspell.
* [bbappconf](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/x11/bbappconf)
 -- Configuration tool for Blackbox application windows.
* [ctrlproxy](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/net/ctrlproxy)
 -- IRC proxy with multiserver support.
* [ctxextensions](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/web/ctxextensions)
 -- Context Menu Extensions for Mozilla.
* [debbuggtk](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/x11/debbuggtk)
 -- GTK applications for managing Debian bug reports.
* [dnstop](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/net/dnstop)
 -- Console tool to analyze DNS traffic.
* [ipython](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/python/ipython)
 -- Enhanced interactive Python shell.
* [karamba](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/kde/karamba)
 -- Program improving the eyecandy of KDE.
* [mailfront](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/mail/mailfront)
 -- Mail server network protocol front-ends.
* [mozplugger](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/web/mozplugger)
 -- Plugin allowing external viewers to be launched inside Mozilla.
* [sqcwa](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/web/sqcwa)
 -- Workaround for Squid not caching some pages.
* [tabextensions](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/web/tabextensions)
 -- Tabbed browsing extensions for Mozilla.
* [therion](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/science/therion)
 -- Cave surveying - 2D and 3D drawing software.


**Orphaned Packages.** 12 packages were orphaned this week and
require a new maintainer. This makes a total of 200 orphaned packages. Many
thanks to the previous maintainers who contributed to the Free Software
community. Please see the [WNPP pages](https://www.debian.org/devel/wnpp/) for
the full list, and please add a note to the bug report and retitle it to ITA:
if you plan to take over a package.


* [fribidi](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/libs/libfribidi0)
 -- Free Implementation of the Unicode BiDi algorithm.
 ([Bug#188662](https://bugs.debian.org/188662))
* [gap4](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4)
 -- Testfiles for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188800](https://bugs.debian.org/188800))
* [gap4-doc-dvi](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4-doc-dvi)
 -- DVI-Docu files for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188803](https://bugs.debian.org/188803))
* [gap4-doc-html](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4-doc-html)
 -- HTML Documentation for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188801](https://bugs.debian.org/188801))
* [gap4-doc-ps](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4-doc-ps)
 -- Postscript files for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188798](https://bugs.debian.org/188798))
* [gap4-gdat](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4-gdat)
 -- Group data libraries for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188802](https://bugs.debian.org/188802))
* [gap4-tdat](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/math/gap4-tdat)
 -- Table data libraries for GAP4.
 ([Bug#188799](https://bugs.debian.org/188799))
* [guppi](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/gnome/guppi-gnumeric)
 -- GNOME graph and plot component, interface to Gnumeric.
 ([Bug#188498](https://bugs.debian.org/188498))
* [libgd-gif](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/libs/libgd-gif1)
 -- GD Graphics Library with gif support (development version).
 ([Bug#188456](https://bugs.debian.org/188456))
* [nail](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/mail/nail)
 -- BSD mail(1) supporting MIME, SMTP, POP3/SSL and UTF-8.
 ([Bug#188806](https://bugs.debian.org/188806))
* [pam-pgsql](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/non-us/libpam-pgsql)
 -- PAM module to authenticate using a PostgreSQL database.
 ([Bug#188658](https://bugs.debian.org/188658))
* [prboom](https://packages.debian.org/unstable/games/prboom)
 -- clone of the legendary first person shooter Doom.
 ([Bug#188807](https://bugs.debian.org/188807))


**Want to continue reading DWN?** Please help us create this
newsletter. Some people are submitting items already, but we are
still in need of volunteer writers who prepare items.
Please see the [contributing
page](https://www.debian.org/News/weekly/contributing) to find out how to help. We're looking forward to receiving your
mail at [dwn@debian.org](mailto:dwn@debian.org).




---



 To receive this newsletter weekly in your mailbox, [subscribe to the debian-news mailing list](https://lists.debian.org/debian-news/).



[Back issues](https://www.debian.org/News/weekly/) of this newsletter are available.



This issue of Debian Weekly News was edited by [Matt Black and Martin 'Joey' Schulze](mailto:dwn@debian.org).




