
Announcing the Linux Compatibility Standards Project
====================================================


**August 11th, 1998**


Debian and Red Hat are collaborating on a written specification of the
Linux Compatibility Standard (LCS). The LCS will clearly outline the
specifications necessary to be LCS compliant. This LCS document will be
used as a guideline on how to build a proper system by those building
Linux distributions, and it will be used by developers needing information
on the basic system configuration to develop application programs.
We expect this LCS effort to complement the example LSB implementation
on which Bruce Perens is working.
Erik Troan (Red Hat) and Dale Scheetz (Debian) will jointly manage the LCS
working group, which will be working on the written standard using the
lcs-eng@lists.debian.org mailing list for the discussion.


lcs-eng@lists.debian.org is an open subscription list. Everyone who is
interested is encouraged to subscribe. Most of all, we encourage all current
members of the LSB committee to subscribe to this list. Even if you intend
to work on the code base, subscribing will be helpful.


The public at large is also encouraged to subscribe, with only one
suggestion. All non-committee members will be STRONGLY encouraged to "lurk"
quietly. If you really have information of pressing importance to the
group, you are encouraged to subscribe to the debian-policy mailing list
and carry your discussion to that group. All LCS discussions on
debian-policy will be collected periodically for review by the LCS group.


### Subscribing


To subscribe to the lcs-eng mailing list send an e-mail to:

```

        lcs-eng-REQUEST@lists.debian.org

```

with the single word subscribe in the subject line. You will shortly receive
a confirmation request. Follow the instructions and you will become
subscribed to the list.

