
Debian at the Atlanta Linux Showcase
====================================


**September 4th, 1998**


Debian will be present at this year's Atlanta Linux Showcase (ALS). On
display will be hardware, highlights of the Debian project, and
demonstrations by Debian developers.


Debian will be featuring the following:


* Corel Netwinder running Debian's ARM port
* free Debian GNU/Linux 2.0 Hamm CDs
* Debian T-shirts
* demonstrations of the powerful next generation packager apt
* a *possible* QuakeWorld showdown with the RH/RHAD developers :)
* and much more!


The Atlanta Linux Showcase is the industry event where vendors showcase
their latest solutions for the Linux operating system. The 1998 Atlanta
Linux Showcase is being held at the Atlanta Apparel Mart in Atlanta,
Georgia, Friday and Saturday October 23 and 24, 1998. Nearly 50 leading
Linux companies will be exhibiting on the show floor featuring product
demonstrations and new product announcements.


The conference sessions will feature over 30 speakers from the international
Linux, Free Software and Open Source community. The talks cover Linux
advocacy, business, integration and development topics.


Debian would like to thank the ALE and its organizers for providing a booth
for Debian.


### About Debian


Debian GNU/Linux is a free distribution of the GNU/Linux operating system.
It is maintained and updated through the work of many users who volunteer
their time and effort.


Linux kernel based operating systems are POSIX based, freely distributable,
and includes features such as true multitasking, virtual memory, shared
libraries, demand loading, proper memory management, TCP/IP networking, and
other features consistent with Unix-type systems. It is used by individuals
and organizations worldwide.


### Contact Information


For more information about Debian's booth at ALS please contact Robert
Edmonds [edmonds@freewwweb.com](mailto:edmonds@freewwweb.com).


For further information about the Debian project, please send email to
[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org) or visit the Debian homepage at
<https://www.debian.org/>.


More information about the ALS can be found at
<http://www.ale.org/showcase/>



