
Kachina Technologies, Inc. to help Debian Sparc development
===========================================================


**June 6th, 1998**


Kachina Technologies, Inc. (<http://kachinatech.com>)
has decided to help
make the Debian Sparc distribution commercially available to Linux
community. When ready, the Debian GNU/Linux 2.0 Hamm Sparc distribution
will be offered by Kachina on both CD-ROM and on preinstalled systems as
well.
When asked about their work with Linux, Ward Deng of Kachina stated:


[Kachina] has been working on UltraSPARC systems and Linux for many years
and realized UltraSPARC and Linux is the best combination for
high-performance computing users. We have demonstrated an UltraLinux cluster
at a trade show and drew a lot of attention.


We have been working on a native port of high-performance development
environment including Fujitsu Fortran 90, C, and other compiler/tools on the
Linux/UltraSPARC platform.


We have been supporting UltraLinux port by providing loan systems to key
Sparc/Linux developers and we will continue doing so. Not only we will
provide remote access and network resource to Debian/UltraLinux developers,
we also intend to provide developers or early users preloaded systems at
prices below their costs to show our support and appreciation.


When asked why Debian was the distribution of choice, the reply was:


Debian is obviously the best distribution so far. The Debian packaging
system and its organized volunteer-based development made it more
maintainable and guaranteed its openness in a long run.


Kachina is providing Internet access, disk space, a publicly accessible
test system, as well as manpower on software packaging and testing to help
the Debian Sparc effort.


Kachina also hosts Scientific Applications on Linux (SAL)
(http://sal.kachinatech.com), which is a collection of information and links
to software that is useful to scientists and engineers.


Debian GNU/Linux has been working on a Sparc distribution since November
1996. This distribution is expected to be ready for release within the next
few months.


For more information regarding Debian Sparc development, please subscribe to
the Debian Sparc mailing list
<[debian-sparc@lists.debian.org](mailto:debian-sparc@lists.debian.org)>.
This can be done at <<https://www.debian.org/MailingLists/subscribe>>.


For more information regarding the work Kachina is currently doing please
send email to
[debian-ultralinux@KachinaTech.com](mailto:debian-ultralinux@KachinaTech.com).



