
First Test Release of Embedded Debian Cross Development Environments
====================================================================


**June 26th, 2000**


Note: This announcement was submitted by Frank Smith <smith@amirix.com>.
Embedded Debian is an independent project and is not formally associated
with Debian. We plan on working closely with Debian, with the goal of
eventually integrating the development into the Debian mainstream.
The first **test** release of Embedded Debian Cross
Development Environments is now available at
<http://www.emdebian.org/>.
The goal of the Embedded Debian Project is to make Debian GNU/Linux a
natural choice for embedded Linux and to advance the embedded Linux state of
the art faster and more effectively.
Specifications:
* Hosts:
	+ Debian i386 (potato-ish)
	 + RPM based i386* Targets:
	+ PowerPC Linux
	 + ARM Linux* Packages:
	+ Binutils 2.9.5.0.37
	 + GCC 2.95.2
	 + GlibC 2.1.3
	 + Based on Debian packages, with added support for cross
	 configurations.* Capabilities:
	+ C development
	 + Useful for Linux kernel development on both Debian and RPM based
	 hosts
	 + Useful for application development (in C) on Debian hosts only.


Notes:
* This is a \_test\_ environment!
 * The PowerPC cross compilers have been tested by
	+ Building Linux kernel 2.2.14 and running it successfully
	 + Building GNU hello, linked static & dynamic
	 + Binaries tested on a PowerPC 750* The ARM cross compilers have been tested by
	+ Building GNU hello, linked static & dynamic
	 + I do not have an ARM host so these binaries have not been tested* The version of GlibC is likely not appropriate for non-FPU
 processors.
 * The .debs have only been installed on a recent version of
 potato. A slink install did not go so well. YMMV.


Future Roadmap
* Expand the list of supported hosts
 * Expand the list of supported programming languages
 * Add support for non-FPU processors
 * User Documentation
 * Much much more...


For more information and download instructions please go to
<http://www.emdebian.org/> and check out
the "Cross Development Environments" link.













