
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-3628-1 perl -- security update
----------------------------------



Date Reported:
25 Jul 2016
Affected Packages:

[perl](https://packages.debian.org/src:perl)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In the Debian bugtracking system: [Bug 829578](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=829578).  
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2016-1238](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-1238), [CVE-2016-6185](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-6185).  

More information:

Multiple vulnerabilities were discovered in the implementation of the
Perl programming language. The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
project identifies the following problems:


* [CVE-2016-1238](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-1238)
John Lightsey and Todd Rinaldo reported that the opportunistic
 loading of optional modules can make many programs unintentionally
 load code from the current working directory (which might be changed
 to another directory without the user realising) and potentially
 leading to privilege escalation, as demonstrated in Debian with
 certain combinations of installed packages.


The problem relates to Perl loading modules from the includes
 directory array ("@INC") in which the last element is the current
 directory ("."). That means that, when perl wants to load a module
 (during first compilation or during lazy loading of a module in run
 time), perl will look for the module in the current directory at the
 end, since '.' is the last include directory in its array of include
 directories to seek. The issue is with requiring libraries that are
 in "." but are not otherwise installed.


With this update several modules which are known to be vulnerable
 are updated to not load modules from current directory.


Additionally the update allows configurable removal of "." from @INC
 in /etc/perl/sitecustomize.pl for a transitional period. It is
 recommended to enable this setting if the possible breakage for a
 specific site has been evaluated. Problems in packages provided in
 Debian resulting from the switch to the removal of '.' from @INC
 should be reported to the Perl maintainers at
 perl@packages.debian.org .


It is planned to switch to the default removal of '.' in @INC in a
 subsequent update to perl via a point release if possible, and in
 any case for the upcoming stable release Debian 9 (stretch).
* [CVE-2016-6185](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-6185)
It was discovered that XSLoader, a core module from Perl to
 dynamically load C libraries into Perl code, could load shared
 library from incorrect location. XSLoader uses caller() information
 to locate the .so file to load. This can be incorrect if
 XSLoader::load() is called in a string eval. An attacker can take
 advantage of this flaw to execute arbitrary code.


For the stable distribution (jessie), these problems have been fixed in
version 5.20.2-3+deb8u6. Additionally this update includes the
following updated packages to address optional module loading
vulnerabilities related to [CVE-2016-1238](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-1238),
or to address build failures which occur when '.' is removed from @INC:


* cdbs 0.4.130+deb8u1
* debhelper 9.20150101+deb8u2
* devscripts 2.15.3+deb8u12
* exim4 4.84.2-2+deb8u12
* libintl-perl 1.23-1+deb8u12
* libmime-charset-perl 1.011.1-1+deb8u22
* libmime-encwords-perl 1.014.3-1+deb8u12
* libmodule-build-perl 0.421000-2+deb8u12
* libnet-dns-perl 0.81-2+deb8u12
* libsys-syslog-perl 0.33-1+deb8u12
* libunicode-linebreak-perl 0.0.20140601-2+deb8u22


We recommend that you upgrade your perl packages.





