
Debian Security Advisory
========================


DSA-3446-1 openssh -- security update
-------------------------------------



Date Reported:
14 Jan 2016
Affected Packages:

[openssh](https://packages.debian.org/src:openssh)

Vulnerable:
Yes
Security database references:
In the Debian bugtracking system: [Bug 810984](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=810984).  
In Mitre's CVE dictionary: [CVE-2016-0777](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-0777), [CVE-2016-0778](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-0778).  

More information:

The Qualys Security team discovered two vulnerabilities in the roaming
code of the OpenSSH client (an implementation of the SSH protocol
suite).


SSH roaming enables a client, in case an SSH connection breaks
unexpectedly, to resume it at a later time, provided the server also
supports it.


The OpenSSH server doesn't support roaming, but the OpenSSH client
supports it (even though it's not documented) and it's enabled by
default.


* [CVE-2016-0777](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-0777)
An information leak (memory disclosure) can be exploited by a rogue
 SSH server to trick a client into leaking sensitive data from the
 client memory, including for example private keys.
* [CVE-2016-0778](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-0778)
A buffer overflow (leading to file descriptor leak), can also be
 exploited by a rogue SSH server, but due to another bug in the code
 is possibly not exploitable, and only under certain conditions (not
 the default configuration), when using ProxyCommand, ForwardAgent or
 ForwardX11.


This security update completely disables the roaming code in the OpenSSH
client.


It is also possible to disable roaming by adding the (undocumented)
option UseRoaming no to the global /etc/ssh/ssh\_config file, or to the
user configuration in ~/.ssh/config, or by passing -oUseRoaming=no on
the command line.


Users with passphrase-less private keys, especially in non interactive
setups (automated jobs using ssh, scp, rsync+ssh etc.) are advised to
update their keys if they have connected to an SSH server they don't
trust.


More details about identifying an attack and mitigations will be
available in the Qualys Security Advisory.


For the oldstable distribution (wheezy), these problems have been fixed
in version 1:6.0p1-4+deb7u3.


For the stable distribution (jessie), these problems have been fixed in
version 1:6.7p1-5+deb8u1.


For the testing distribution (stretch) and unstable distribution (sid), these
problems will be fixed in a later version.


We recommend that you upgrade your openssh packages.





