
Public accessible Debian Machine
================================


**January 2nd, 2003**


Hewlett-Packard (HP) offers public access to several machines running
Debian GNU/Linux through their Test Drive program. Software authors
and prospective users are offered an account on those machines in
order to find out more about Debian GNU/Linux and a particular HP
hardware. Four architectures are supported (Alpha, PA-RISC, IA-32 and
IA-64). Compilers are installed to that software authors can test
whether their software compiles on those platforms.


Hewlett-Packard offers access to the following four architectures:




|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Intel (IA-32)  | ProLiant DL360 G2 1.4GHz | SMP |
| Intel (IA-64)  | rx2600 Itanium II  | SMP |
| Alpha (alpha)  | XP1000a 1@667MHz  |  UP |
| Alpha (alpha)  | DS20 2@500MHz  | SMP |
| PA-RISC (hppa) | rp5470 1@550MHz  |  UP |


The Test Drive Program is a free service of HP. Its main purpose is
to provide developers with access to new HP hardware running various
HP and third party operating systems and applications. When you
register, you get a free shell account you can use to log into the
wide variety of systems on the Test Drive network and try out the
software and operating systems running on them.


Test Drive gives you the opportunity to try out combinations of
hardware, operating systems, and software before you buy them. For
developers, it also gives you the opportunity to ensure your software
runs on hardware, software, and operating system combinations which
you may not have available to you locally.


More information: [testdrive.hp.com](http://www.testdrive.hp.com/)



