
Debian Project at several Conferences in Europe
===============================================


**July 6th, 2003**


Three important exhibitions and conferences that cover Free Software
and GNU/Linux will take place during the next couple of days.



**July 9th - 12th: [Libre Software Meeting](https://www.debian.org/events/2003/0709-lsm)**,
 Metz, France

Several members of the Debian project will attend this meeting
of Free Software developers. Andreas Tille will give a talk
discussing whether Open Source Software can meet the
requirements of the health equity for the global community.
Martin Michlmayr will also deliver a talk about tracking
inactive maintainers in the Debian project.



**July 10th - 13th: [LinuxTag](https://www.debian.org/events/2003/0710-linuxtag)**,
 Karlsruhe, Germany

The Debian project is attending Europe's largest conference and
exhibition with Free Software affiliation with a booth
inside the main exhibition area. In addition Debian
members maintain a one-day conference on Friday and several
other talks:


**Thursday, July 10th, 2003:**


17:00 Andreas Tille: Integration of Knoppix in Debian


**Friday, July 11th, 2003:**



  
10:00 Martin Michlmayr: State of the Nation
  
11:00 Michael Meskes: Migration of governmental units
  
12:00 Sebastian Ley, Martin Loschwitz: BoF: Showcasing the Debian-Installer
  
13:00 Jörg Wendland: Mass virtual hosting with Apache and LDAP
  
14:00 Michael Banck: Debian Bug Tracking System
  
15:00 Alexander Schmehl: Debian Kernel Packaging
  
16:00 Daniel K. Gebhart: Debian Mentors Project
  
17:00 Daniel Atencio: APT-Tools, Backporting and Repositories



**Saturday, July 12th, 2003:**



  
12:00 Hauke Goos-Habermann, Daniel Kasten: Software distribution system m23
  
12:00 Martin Michlmayr: Managing Debian
  
13:30 Martin 'Joey' Schulze: (Software) development in the Debian Project
  
15:00 Peter Palfrader: Keysigning Party



**Sunday, July 13th, 2003:**


14:00 Wolfgang Jährling: 5 years with Debian GNU/Hurd



**July 18th - 19th: [Debian Conference 3](https://www.debian.org/events/2003/0718-debconf)**,
 Oslo, Norway

Debconf is a conference with, by and for Debian developers.
Non-developers are quite welcome to attend as well. Prior to
the conference will be the Debcamp hacking session. Peter
Palfrader will organise a keysigning party as well.




We invite all interested people in these areas to attend these
conferences, meet Debian developers and users, exchange GnuPG
fingerprints, discuss various topics on Debian and Free Software,
and otherwise participate in our vibrant community.



