
Debian pushes development of kFreeBSD port
==========================================


**October 7th, 2009**


The Debian Release Team is pleased to announce that it sees the port of
the Debian system to the FreeBSD kernel fit to be handled equal with
the other release ports. The upcoming release codenamed 'Squeeze' is
planned to be the first Debian distribution to be released with Linux and
FreeBSD kernels.


The kFreeBSD architectures for the AMD64/Intel EM64T and i386 processor
architectures are now release architectures. Severe
bugs on these architectures will be considered release critical the same
way as bugs on other architectures like armel or i386 are. If a particular
package does not build or work properly on such an architecture this
problem is considered release-critical.


Debian's main motivation for the inclusion of the FreeBSD kernel into the
official release process is the opportunity to offer to its users a broader
choice of kernels and also include a kernel that provides features such as
jails, the OpenBSD Packet Filter and support for NDIS drivers in the
mainline kernel with full support.


About Debian
------------


The Debian Project was founded in 1993 by Ian Murdock to be a truly
free, community project. Since then the project has grown to be one of the
largest and most influential open source projects.
Over three thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to
create
and maintain Debian software. Translated into over 30 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the Debian web pages at <https://www.debian.org/> or send mail to
<[press@debian.org](mailto:press@debian.org)>.



