
2009 Annual International Debian Conference finished successfully
=================================================================


**August 6th, 2009**


About 250 people from over 35 countries attended this year's Debian
conference, DebConf9, which took place from July 24th to 30th in
Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain. About 80 of them also attended the
Debian working camp, DebCamp, which preceded the conference from July
16th to 23rd. DebCamp is mostly used for face to face meetings by
teams within Debian, but also by groups of Debian contributors working
on ad-hoc projects that require closer collaboration.


Thanks to strong sponsorship from HP, Junta de Extremadura,
Telefonica, Linux Magazine, Google, Collabora, Canonical, Qt,
maemo.org, Comparex, Intel, Ayuntamiento de Cáceres and others, the
conference's catering, facilities, accommodation as well as abundant
computing power were free of charge to all early registrants and
inexpensive to other attendees. Additionally, this allowed many active
Debian contributors from both inside and outside Europe to receive
travel subsidies to make their attendance possible. The Junta de
Extremadura's support in planning and organising the conference helped
to make the event go smoothly and leave a professional and hospitable
impression.


Much like the Debian project itself, the conference organisation
team consists only of volunteers. The combination of their hard work
and support from the sponsors helped DebConf9 to be highly productive,
achieving several seminal results. Debian Project Leader Steve
McIntyre concluded: This has been one of the most productive
conferences we have ever held. Our developers and teams achieved a
great deal during this short period, and this will surely have a big
impact on the upcoming release of Squeeze.


Among the many notable talks were the release team's keynote,
presenting the release goals and further plans for Debian GNU/Linux
6.0 Squeeze as well as the new timed freezes release policy,
and the Project Leader's keynote, which prompted discussions about
motivating the project's developer base in the future to work further
towards Debian's motto of being the universal operating
system.


In all, over 130 different sessions took place during the
conference, ranging from formal talks to numerous spontaneously
scheduled meetings. For most of these sessions, live video streams
were made available over the internet. This allowed participation of
non attending Debian contributors, who could additionally participate
in discussions via special chat channels. As with recordings of
previous Debian conferences, the videos will be made public at [debconf9.debconf.org/video](https://debconf9.debconf.org/video)
once they have been processed and edited.


The [next Debian
Conference](https://debconf10.debconf.org) will take place in 2010 in New York City, USA. The
DebConf website contains much more information about [DebConf](https://www.debconf.org), as well as several [pictures](https://www.debconf.org/gallery/debconf9) from this
year's conference.


About Debian
------------


Debian GNU/Linux is a free computer operating system. Over three
thousand volunteers from all over the world work together to create
and maintain Debian software. Translated into 27 languages, and
supporting a huge range of computer types, Debian calls itself the
universal operating system.


About DebConf
-------------


DebConf is the Debian Project's developer conference. In addition to a full
schedule of technical, social and policy talks, DebConf provides an
opportunity for developers, contributors and other interested people to meet
in person and work together more closely. It has taken place annually since
2000 in locations as varied as Canada, Finland, and Mexico.


Contact Information
-------------------


For further information, please visit the DebConf web pages at <https://www.debconf.org/> or send mail to <[press@debconf.org](mailto:press%40debconf.org)>.



